National Narrative Recommendations June 19th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Manipur Chief Minister asks Mizoram counterpart to protect Meiteis; BJP MLAs in New Delhi to meet PM
Brief | Manipur CM N Biren Singh called Mizoram CM Zoramthanga on Sunday, asking him to take measures to ensure the security of the Meitei community in the neighbouring State.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Manipur has been burning for almost 50 days, yet Modi has not acknowledged it. 
100 se jyada deaths aur 50000 se jyada beghar, par Modi ko do shabd kahne tak ka samay nahi mila. 
The BJP is hand in glove with militant outfits for electoral gains. 

Press Conference in Delhi, MK
MK should hold a press conference to highlight that Manipur has been burning for 50 days and the BJP has failed to find a resolution.
Highlight CM Biren Singh has betrayed his own people, instead of resolving the on-going violence in Manipur he is busy focusing on other States.
 Highlight that Biren Singh should focus on bringing peace to Manipur which he has failed to do in the past 50 days.
Instead of finding a resolution to the on-going violence, PM Modi is busy packing his bags for the next international tour.
Highlight that even BJP people have started demanding President's Rule in Manipur. 
Ask PM Modi, How many more deaths would it take for the PM to do 'Manipur Ki Baat'. 

All-Party Delegation, Manipur 
An all party delegation composed of leaders from all opposition parties should visit Manipur to talk to both communities.
Highlight that the PM Modi will not come to Manipur but the opposition party wants peace in Manipur. 

Party, On-Ground 
Indian Overseas Congress should hold a protest in the US when PM Modi arrives with placards asking questions why is PM silent on the Manipur violence? 
50 days of on-going violence and the PM is quiet.

Press Conference in Aizawl, Lal Thanhawla
Mizoram PCC should highlight that CM Zoramthanga has betrayed his own people. 
Instead of asking the Manipur CM to safeguard the minorities in Manipur, he is taking instructions from Biren Singh.
Highlight the total failure of NEDA, the entire NE region is burning under the BJP 

Party, Social Media
INC should launch a podcast/series on YouTube "Manipur ki Baat" highlighting that the PM will not speak on the Manipur issue but INC will.
The INC official social media handle start a poll asking "When do you think the PM will speak about Manipur".
INC leaders should post the number of deaths in the last 50 days alongside for how long the PM has been silent.

Issue 2 | Nearly 100 deaths in three states cause heat alarm; delayed monsoon in UP
Brief | Dozens of people have died in at least three states - Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha - in the last three days due to exposure to intense heat, doctors in these regions have said, with weather officials separately warning that severe heat waves will continue in many parts of the country.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP kisi bhi problem ko solve karne ke bajay uspar parda dalne me yakin rakhti hai. 
Log Mar 
Jayen pr Bhajpa Ka PR kharab nahi hona chahiye. 

Press Conference 
Brijlal Khabri should hold a press conference to highlight that the government has failed to make any arrangements for the people in this scorching heat.
Highlight the BJP government is incompetent and always hides the truth behind the death of common people.
Demand for compensation for the families who have lost lives due to severe heat waves. 

Party, On-Ground 
IYC and NSUI should set-up water kiosks outside of hospitals to help people in the hospitals.
Along with hospitals INC should set-up water coolers at court-houses and block offices in heat wave affected states.
Seva Dal should announce a toll free helpline number for arranging ambulances for people to reach hospitals from far off regions. 
INC should organise a blood donation drive.

Party, Social Media
MK should release a policy brief on how the government should ensure that people doing manual labour are protected from heat and a new compensation policy.

Issue 3 | Arvind Kejriwal's 'neech harkat' jibe on Congress, Ashok Gehlot
Brief | Kejriwal alleged that Gehlot put up his hoardings and banners throughout the route and all around the venue in an attempt to spoil AAP's rally and described it as nothing short of a "neech harkat".
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Kejriwal is rupturing opposition unity 
Arvind Kejriwal = Prachar Mantri 2.0
Jiski puri sarkar hi Prachar par chal rahi hai, use dusro ke posters dekh kar unhe 'Neech' bula raha hai. 

Press Conference 
Pawan Khera, Jairam Ramesh should hold a presser and point out the hypocrisy of AAP in blaming the INC for lack of opposition unity, when their national convener used vulgar language to attack a respected Congress leader.
Should point out that AAP leaders feel entitled to address OBCs, SCs and STs using casteist slurs 
Point out AAP government's wasteful spending on advertisements.

Party, on ground 
Blacken Arvind Kejriwal's posters across New Delhi to highlight how much money he spends on advertisement 

Party, Social media 
All INC leaders of Rajasthan, Delhi and Rajasthan should condemn Kejriwal for his use of gutter language on social media 
Post pictures of AAP's posters across Delhi captioned with the words "Neech Harkat"

Issue 4 | Kathmandu bans all Indian films amid Adipurush dialogue controversy
Brief | Kathmandu mayor on Sunday evening took to Facebook and announced a ban on the screening of all Indian films by deploying the Kathmandu Metropolitan Police over the Indian film Adipurush had a dialogue claiming Janaki was India's daughter. He had given a 3-day ultimatum to correct it.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP allowed the screening of a distorted version of the Ramayana. 
BJP is peddling the business of religion.

Press Conference 
Supriya Shrinate should ask why the Censor Board greenlighted Adipurush? Was the film okayed by the Censor Board as BJP CMs had blessed the film? 
Ask how a film sexualising Sita was allowed to screen across theatres in India
Question BJP's silence on the matter
Say the film will sully childrens' minds through a distorted retelling of the Ramayana, but the BJP does not care as it is in the business of religion 
Compare Adipurish with the Ramanand Sagar version that was aired under the INC
Say in the animated version of the Ramayana, even the Japanese got the facts right 
 
Party, on ground 
INC should organise free screening of the the animated version of the Ramayana for children during their summer vacation so that they know the undistorted version of the epic

Issue 5 | Argument over loan spirals, sisters shot dead in Delhi's RK Puram
Brief | Two women who jumped in to rescue their elder brother, after an argument over a loan spiralled, were shot dead by assailants in Southwest Delhi's RK Puram. The incident took place in the early hours of Sunday near the high-security Army and Air Force headquarters in RK Puram. There are also offices of the CRPF and NCB in the area.
Actionable | Narrative stance 
Under Amit Shah, the law and order situation is in shambles from Manipur to Delhi. 

Press Conference
DPCC president Anil Chaudhary should highlight incidents of law and order breakdown, including the RK Puram incident, stabbing of Delhi University student, hit-and-run-drag case.
Say that from New Delhi to Manipur, law and order has taken a beating under Amit Shah.
The Delhi government is busy beautifying the city, while crime remains unabated.