National Narrative Recommendations June 17th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 2 | Mysterious Disappearance Of ₹500 Notes Worth ₹88,032.5 Cr Raises Security Concerns For Indian Economy
Brief | Data obtained by activist Manoranjan Roy, under the Right to Information Act (RTI) has revealed that 375.450 million pieces of the newly designed Rs 500 note were printed by the Currency Note Press, Nashik, but RBI records have received only 345.000 million pieces printed between April 2015 and December 2016.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
9 years of the Narendra Modi-led BJP government have left India's economy in tatters. 
Why does the Prime Minister not talk about the black- money anymore? 

Press Conference
Supriya Shrinate should hold a press conference to demand answers from the government on the missing 1760.65 million notes of Rs 500. 
Highlight that the value of missing notes is a staggering 88032.5 cr
Highlight that 375.450 million pieces of the newly designed Rs 500 note were printed by the Currency Note Press, Nashik, but RBI records having received only 345.000 million pieces printed between April 2015 and December 2016.
The BJP government has to answer to the people of India how can ₹88,032.5 Cr vanish into thin air?
Highlight that this happened just before the demonetisation. Ask if the real purpose of demonetisation was to steal this money?

Party, On Ground
DPCC should paste posters across hotspots, questioning "Where did the money go?" 

Party, Social Media
All leaders should tweet "Where did ₹88,032.5 Cr Vanish?" and tag Narendra Modi

Issue 2 | Ashok Gehlot caste census
Brief | Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot has stated that a caste based census should be instigated, so that different social groups are offered the opportunity to benefit from reservations based on their population size and he claimed to have written to the PM on the demand for a caste census
Narrative Stance
Jitani Abaadi, Utna Haq
Caste census is the X-ray of Indian society
For the last 9 years, BJP has been systematically taking away the rights of working-class people to give the upper-caste elites more control over the wealth created by the Bahujan population
Press Conference
All CMs of INC governed states should hold a press conference to demand for a caste census. 
Highlight that the State governments are ready to execute caste census but the Central government is creating hindrances.
Emphasise that BJP is anti-OBC, anti-Dalit and anti-Adivasi, that is why they don't want to conduct caste-census so that they don't have to give proportionate reservation.

Party, On Ground 
INC leaders should continue to raise the "Jitni Abadi, Utna Haq" slogan and demand for caste census at the National level. 
DPCCs and SPCCs should conduct rallies and block meetings to reiterate the need for a caste census.
DPCCs to organise a District Sammelan invite all caste representatives and highlight the necessity for a caste-based census. 
INC OBC and SC department along with All India Adivasi Congress should reach out to all OBC, SC and ST organisations to discuss the implementation of caste-census demand across the country. 
INC OBC and SC department along with All India Adivasi Congress should conduct closed-door meetings in all States with OBC,SC,ST Sangathans and influencers. 

Party, Social Media
All INC leaders should post the demand of caste census for proportionate representation.

Issue 3 | Huge Pressure on the minor's family, says Sakshi Malik
Brief | "He (Brij Bhusan Sharan Singh) has been named in the chargesheet submitted by police yesterday. In the minor's case, it is clear that there is a lot of pressure on the family. We will decide on the further course of action after our remaining demands are met by the government," Sakshi Malik said.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Amit Shah put pressure on the wrestlers and forcing them to withdraw the complaint.
Why is the PM and HM afraid of Brij Bhushan?
Beti Bachao ka nara ab Balatkari Bachao me badal gaya hai.

Press Byte 
Alka Lamba and Ragini Naik should give a statement highlighting that the BJP government is protecting a rapist and threatening the daughters of the country. 
Instead of giving protection to the wrestlers, the Home Minister and the BJP ecosystem is intimidating and humiliating the wrestlers. 
Question: Who is stopping the police to arrest Brij Bhushan?

Meeting with Wrestlers
PG should meet with the wrestlers and discuss how they are being pressured by the BJP government to withdraw the cases.