National Narrative Recommendations July 3, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Shortage of Majors & Captains in units, Army may cut HQ postings
Brief | Facing an acute shortage of officers at the Major and Captain levels, the Army is planning to reduce the posting of staff officers at various headquarters to overcome their shortage in units, and is considering the appointment of re-employed officers to such posts
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Short on officers, can India really fight a two-front war? 
Modi Ji only prefers to use the army for his PR, defence is not his priority.
Modi Ji, you have destroyed so many institutions in this country, don't destroy the Army. 

Press Conference 
Former Chief of Army Staff General Deepak Kapoor (retd), Lt. Gen Deependra Singh Hooda and Col Rohit Chaudhary should hold a press conference to highlight shortage of Majors and Captains in units.
Ask the PM, why does India not have enough experienced persons to lead battalions? 
'Why have field postings not been prioritised so far, despite the double threat to our frontiers?
Has the shortage of Majors and Captains created because of the cost cutting that the Modi government is imposing on the Indian Army?
Should say that Modi has turned the most experienced and reputed armed force in the world into something unrecognisable 
Highlight that China is holding drives to recruit experienced officers, while the Modi govt is reducing vacancies. Can India really take on China? 
The Modi government has all the money in the world for Modi's PR but does not have funds for the Indian Army. 
The Modi government should stop imposing the cost cutting on the defence forces and allow them to recruit the adequate number of Jawans and Officers.

Issue 2 | Manipur violence: Supreme Court seeks 'detailed status report' from state government
Brief | The SC sought a "detailed status report" from the Manipur government explaining the "situation on the ground" in the wake of the ongoing clashes that have resulted in the loss of lives and property, by July 7.
Actionable | Narrative Stance : 
Manipur jal raha hai, par Modi Sarkar ke hisab se sab Changa hai. 
The BJP government has a habit of lying. instead of resolving an issue they prefer hiding it. 

Press Conference : 
MK should hold a press conference to highlight that the Supreme court demanding a detailed report indicates the severity of the crisis going on in Manipur. 
Biren Singh has been lying about the ground situation of Manipur and has actively fueled the violence. 
The BJP claims that everything is getting back to normalcy , however the situation at relief camps is pathetic. 
Relief camps are functioning at 1 week ration.
People are dying everyday because of hunger and inhumane living conditions. 
The BJP government should tell the people of India about their efforts to control the violence in the state
How many guns have been recovered by the government so far?
How many FIRs have been filed against the people who unleashed the violence of innocent people?
How many accused have been arrested?
How many times have they established dialogue with the people of all communities and appealed for peace?
Now, even the Supreme Court doesn't trust Biren Singh and his government and has sought for a fresh status report. 
Biren Singh has clearly lost the trust of the people and has no right to remain as the Chief Minister of Manipur. 

Supreme Court, INC Manipur Leaders
Senior INC Manipur Leaders (MPCC President or ex-CM O. Ibobi Singh) should implead themselves in the ongoing Supreme Court dispute seeking the Supreme Court's intervention in holding the Union and the State governments accountable. 
They should seek the formation of a judicial probe to monitor the law & order situation and carry out a fact-finding mission regarding the true number of deaths, destruction, and the entire set of security lapses by the Union and the State government.

Issue 3 | Delhi government says no cash for rapid rail, SC directed it to furnish details of funds spent on advertisements in the last three financial years
Brief | The Supreme Court on Monday slammed the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government for expressing its inability to contribute funds for the construction of the RRTS project and directed it to furnish details of funds spent on advertisements in the last three financial years
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
AAP and BJP do not believe in real development, they are totally dependent on PR. 
There is a competition between Modi and Kejariwal on who can spend more money on advertisements. 
Press Conference 
Sandeep Dixit should hold a press conference to highlight that under the Kejariwal government, the development of Delhi has come to a standstill because of too much emphasis on publicity. 
Highlight that Delhi was built by the Sheila Dixit government without spending money on its advertisement.
The roads, Metro, and flyovers built by the INC government spoke for itself, they never had to publicise it.
People of Delhi are tired of BJP and AAP's fake fight and their excessive amount of spending on branding their supreme leaders.

Issue 4 | Census unlikely before 2024
Brief | The office of the Registrar General of India issued an order last week, stating the date of freezing of boundaries for the ensuing Census has been extended and will now be frozen with effect from January 1, 2024, a senior government official told The Hindu.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Ye 2024 se pehle census nahi karwayenge kyonki pol khul jayegi
Census jaisi simple governance exercise toh BJP se karwai nahi jati, aur dave karte hain good governance ke. 
Sabka Satha Sabka Vikas kaise hoga jab sabki ginti hi nahi hogi. 

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference saying the government has abjectly failed in the most basic governance exercise, which is holding a census. 
The BJP government is not holding census because it will expose their incompetence
The extreme unemployment in the country
The actual number of Covid deaths
The number of people pushed back into poverty in the last 9 years. 
And, the truth about fake claims of development made by the BJP government

We need a census to identify marginalised communities, economically disadvantaged groups, and areas with educational disparities.
We need a census to rationalise the fund transfer from the Centre to the states, which takes place according to the recommendations of the Finance Commission. 
Emphasise that the Modi government is delaying the census as:
It does not want to conduct a caste census, despite promising an OBC census.
The tall claims of achievements made by the incumbent regime with respect to Human Development Indicators might stand contrary to the Census Findings.

Issue 5 | PM Modi to chair SCO summit 2023 on July 4th, Putin, Xi Jinping, and Shehbaz Sharif to participate virtually
Brief | Chinese President Xi Jinping will join the virtual Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit to be hosted by India on July 4, with Beijing saying on Friday that regional countries are looking to the bloc to play a bigger role in ensuring regional security.
The SCO Summit is being held at a time when relations between India and China are at an all-time low because of the dragging military standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which entered its fourth year in May.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Humare Jawan seema par apni jaan de rhe hain, aur Modi Ji Xi Jinping ke sath dost dost khel rahe hain. 
Modi Ji hum China ko Laal aankh kab dikhayenge?

Press Conference
Pawan Khera should hold a press conference to slam modi for ignoring India's interests in the SCO summit 2023z. 
If Modi Ji doesn't know, somebody should tell him that SCO stands for Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, of which China is a founding member. 
It's been more than 3 years since the cowardly attack by Chinese PLA in Galwan where several Indian soldiers including Col. Santosh Babu lost their lives. 
Narendra Modi before becoming the PM used to boast about showing 'Laal Ankh' (red eye) to Chinese. 
Since the cowardly attack in Galwan, Modi has not uttered the word 'China' even once in any meeting or speech. 
Modi, by denying the Chinese incursion on national television, has validated Chinese claim over Indian land. 
China has not only occupied thousands of square KMs of Indian land, but also constructed villages and military infrastructure along the border which cannot be taken lightly. 
India is hosting the SCO summit 2023, India should set the agenda for the meeting not the other countries.
This is the forum where Mr Modi should demand answers from his Chinese and Pakistani counterparts on the Galwan and Poonch attack. 
Demand answers from Xi Jinping on Chinese incursion and from Shehbaz Sharif on the continued terror from across the border.