National Narrative Recommendations May 25th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Australian universities ban Indian students from 5 States, India-Australia to sign Free Trade Agreement soon
Brief | According to The Sydney Morning Herald, the institutions have sent instructions to education agents not to recruit students from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.
Actionable | Narrative Stance:
Modi speaks of being a Vishwaguru but can't safeguard the interests of our students abroad.
Modi went to Australia and as soon as he came back from his visit Australia banned Indian students. What kind of diplomacy is this?
Is Modi govt entering into FTAs that are harmful for our dairy and livestock farmers so that his best friend's business in Australia can be protected?

Press Conference 
Shashi Tharoor should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight that as soon as the PM returned from his visit from Australia, they banned Indian students' visas from 5 States. 
Highlight that the Free Trade Agreement was poorly negotiated by Modi:
The FTA is favourable for Australia; the meat and dairy industry in India will be affected. 
There have been racist attacks on Indian students in Australia. Did the PM discuss the safety of Indians in Australia?
PM Modi is busy organising events to build his Vishwaguru image while sidelining and ignoring the issues of the Indian people.
Highlight that the US President cancelled QUAD Meeting for domestic issues while PM Modi remains silent on the on-going violence in Manipur. 

Letter to Australian PM
IOC should write a letter to the PM of Australia highlighting that the ban on student visas from the 5 States is concerning and it impacts the future of Indian students.

Issue 2 | Amul vs Aavin in Tamil Nadu
Brief | Amul infringes on Aavin's milk shed area which has been nurtured in a true cooperative spirit over decades.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Amit Shah is trying to finish local milk cooperatives to benefit Gujarat's Amul.

Party, On-Ground 
All 8 MPs and 18 MLAs INC Tamil Nadu should visit Aavin stores in their area and be seen consuming Aavin products
Highlight that Amit Shah is trying to impose big cooperatives like Amul on regional and small cooperatives like Aavin. 
Highlight that Amit Shah tried to bring Amul to Karnataka and the people rejected. Similarly they are trying to impose Amul on the people of Tamil Nadu and people reject this imposition.

Issue 3 | BSP, BJD, TDP, YSRCP to attend Parliament inauguration
Brief | Fifteen parties, mostly belonging to the BJP-led NDA alliance, are expected to attend the inauguration of new Parliament building by Prime Minister Narendra Modi
Actionable | Narrative
Mayawati is Anti-Bahujan 
Maywati listens to BJP's non-appeasement policies for Bahujans 
BJD has insulted tribals of Odisha, cannot claim to be the voice of Odisha
Both TDP and YSRCP are competing with each other to be pets of PM Modi

Press Byte 
Brij Lal Khabri should give a statement to highlight that Mayawati no longer works for the cause of Bahujans. 
Saptagiri Shankar Ulaka should give a statement questioning Naveen Patnaik's silence over the insult of the President of the country. 
Highlight the tacit understanding between BJP and BJD , how BJP and BJP are cutouts from the same cloth. 
Highlight Naveen Patanaik's hypocrisy on how within the state keeps slamming BJP , however on the national front remains equidistant from the opposition and the ruling party. 
Highlight that INC is the only option which thinks of Odia Pride and Tribal Pride and will not mock Odia people like Naveen Patnaik does.
D Pallam Raju should give a statement that both TDP and YSRCP have betrayed tribals, and do not have the spine to stand up to BJP because they have corruption to hide.

Issue 4 | Will resolve all disputes in Manipur during the 3-day visit: Amit Shah
Brief | Union Home Minister Amit Shah appealed for peace in Manipur and said he would visit the northeastern state soon and talk to people of both communities involved in the violence.
Actionable | Press Byte, MK
Demand Amit Shah to take an all party delegation on his Manipur visit.
` on the MHA to take action, finally he has woken up. To arrive at a fair solution, all parties must be brought to the table.