National Narrative Recommendations June 22nd, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Attempts are being made to create a Manipur-like situation in Maharashtra
Brief | Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole on Wednesday slammed the Centre and the Eknath Shinde-led state government, alleging that attempts were being made to incite riots and create a Manipur-like situation in the state.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Bhajpa- Shinde sarkar vikas ke har mudde par fail hai, isliye Maharashtra ko Dangon ki aag me jhonkna chahti hai. 
Bhajpa ke log Maharashtra ko Manipur banana chahte hain.

Press Conference 
Nana Patole, Ashok Chavan, Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil, and Uddhav Thackeray should hold a joint press conference to highlight that under the BJP government in Maharashtra, the State has witnessed multiple instances of communal tension.
Highlighting that the Shinde- Fadnavis government has failed on the development front and created a communal divide in the society to divert attention from people's issues. 
The people of Maharashtra believe in living in harmony with each other, an example of this unity lies in the decision of the Muslim community to not sacrifice animals on Ashadhi Ekadashi day. 
Ask the Shinde- Fadnavis government to focus on governance, controlling inflation, and creating jobs for the youth of Maharashtra. 

Party, On-ground 
INC PCC in-charges should organize all faith community lunches in all violence-affected areas to propagate the message of harmony and unity that exists in Maharashtrian culture. 
MPCC and DCC should distribute books of Maharashtrian thinkers and philosophers who promoted the message of unity in diversity. 
On 29th June 2023 INC should organize a festival in Bhiwandi, where all communities will come together and celebrate "Bharat Jodo- Pustak Dindi''
A 1 km Bharat Jodo Yatra will be taken with all communities, with the message "United against hate spread by BJP".
MVA representatives should hold a meeting with religious leaders of all the communities. 
INC should distribute 25000 calendars in Bhiwandi with the quotes/messages of the Saints of Maharashtra example: Kabir, Tukaram, Ramdas, etc.

Issue 2 | Experts concerned over Joshimath situation worsening during monsoon
Brief | With monsoons around the corner, the Joshimath district administration and experts have expressed their concerns about untoward geological instability in the region.
Around 868 structures have developed cracks and 181 have been declared unsafe so far in the crisis-hit Joshimath
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
The government is not prepared for another big disaster in Uttarakhand. 
The BJP government never focused on sustainable development, but rather enforced big infrastructure development causing a threat to sensitive hilly terrain. 

Press Conference: 
Harish Rawat should hold a press conference to highlight the unpreparedness of the BJP government to deal with any calamity.
Highlight that Joshimath is sinking and the BJP government has failed to come up with a sustainable plan of development.
The BJP government waits for a disaster to happen and for people to lose lives or lifelong belonging to become serious and take action.
Demand the BJP government take the warnings of experts seriously and prepare for a quick and sustainable response to the Joshimath sinking. 
Demand that BJP should not let Joshimath develop into another major disaster.
A planning committee should be formulated by the government to find a solution to sustainable development. 
People's concerns and suggestions should be taken into consideration before imposing a decision on them. 

Party on Ground 
INC should appoint volunteers "Aapda Mitra" in Uttarakhand to act as first responders to all calamities.
Himachal Pradesh Aapda Mitr can train these volunteers in disaster management.
INC should put up hoardings at major highways and hotspots in Uttarakhand with the message "Wake Up Sarkar, Time Is To Be Prepared"

Issue 3 | AAP Threatens To Skip Opposition Meet If Congress Doesn't Assure Support Against Centre's Ordinance
Brief | AAP has threatened to skip Opposition meet in Patna if Congress doesn't join the protest against Centre's ordinance.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Participation in all opposition meetings is a litmus test for all parties, it would determine which party stands for the country and which party is concerned for its political gain.
Jin partiyon ka bhajpa se andaruni samjhauta hai wahi Patna ki all opposition meet se dur bhag rahi hain.

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference to highlight that the idea behind the all-opposition meeting is to bring all parties for a larger cause of saving the country. 
It is up to all the parties where they want to stand, what are they fighting for? This meeting is not to set-personal agenda. 
It is an opportunity for all parties to show unity and fight for the larger issues. Stay away from petty politics and come join hands for the country. 
Kejriwal can decide whether to attend the meeting or not, it is a fight for the country. It is up to Kejriwal to decide to take a stand for the country or indulge in petty politics.

Issue 4 | Kabaddi player, his mother attacked in Moga, condition critical
Brief | A Kabaddi player and his house were attacked in Badhani village of Moga district. The player's mother has been seriously injured in this attack.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
The law and order situation has been deteriorating in Punjab since AAP has come to power.
Jab tak Punjab ki Sarkar Dilli se chalegi, Punjab ka law & order thik nahi ho sakta. 

Visit Hospital
Raja Warring should visit the kabbadi player and his mother at the hospital where they are being treated. 
Promise all kinds of support including legal and financial assistance to the family. 

Press Byte
Raja Warring should state the press to highlight that the AAP is incapable of governing Punjab. 
Highlight that ever since AAP has come to power in Punjab, the law & order of the state has completely collapsed. 
Highlight that Arvind Kejriwal wants to govern Punjab from Delhi, not only is this impossible but this is also an insult to all the people of Punjab.

Issue 5 | Flood situation grim in Assam; nearly 1.2 lakhs hit
Brief | At present, 780 villages are under water and 10,591.85 hectares of crop areas have been damaged across Assam. 
Heavy rain across several parts of the state inundated new areas even as nearly 1.2 lakh people were hit due to the deluge in 10 districts.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Himanta Biswa has been busy travelling to other states for election campaigning rather than focusing on his state. 
Bhajpa kabhi bhi aapda se pahle taiyari nhin karti, bas aapda ke baad avasar khojti hai. 

Party, On-Ground
APCC Chief Ripun Borah should camp in the flood-affected districts
Seva Dal, IYC, and INC cadre should organize relief camps in the affected areas
Relief kits comprising food, medicines, and drinking water should be distributed at relief camps.
A disaster relief wing called Nehru Aid or Indira Aid under Seva Dal should be created who will be first responders to all disasters, they will be tasked to visit any disaster-affected area, and help with relief work.
DCCs and PCCs should convert all INC offices neighbouring regions of flood-affected areas into shelter homes for the displaced people.
Form a team of doctors and constitute a response team for relief work. 

Party, Online
MK and RG should give a call to all INC workers to be prepared to provide assistance and relief material to the affected people.