National Narrative Recommendations June 2nd, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Where are the jobs? India's world-beating growth falls short
Brief | India is overtaking China to become the world's most populous nation with more than 1.4 billion people. Nearly 53% are under 30, its much-touted demographic dividend, but without jobs, tens of millions of young people are becoming a drag on the economy.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
GDP is growing only for the rich, the common people of our country are reeling under the all time high unemployment and inflation. 
Modi aur Shah sirf Jumalebaazi karte hain, agar unhone India ki economy ko itna hi majboot kar diya hai toh unke raj me Bharat ke Karodon yuva berojgaar kyun hain?

Press Conference 
P. Chidambaram and Gourav Vallabh should hold a press conference to highlight that there is rising unemployment in the country.
BJP leaders roam around touting about the rising GDP, but will never talk about the rising unemployment in the country. 
Highlight that the GDP growth is only benefiting the rich of the country. Crores of young people in India are still unemployed and have no hopes of getting jobs under the Modi government. 
Highlighting that, by the government's own admission in Lok Sabha, between 2014 to 2022 under Modi government, more than 22 crore people applied for government jobs and only 7 lakh were selected. The selection rate was as low as 0.33 per cent. 
The BJP government is refusing to take responsibility for creating jobs in the country. 
Highlight that during the Modi government crores of Indians have lost jobs while only a handful of people got the job.

Issue 2 | Law Commission of India recommends changes to #sedition law that will effectively make it more draconian
Brief | With a view to preventing any "alleged misuse" of the provision, the Law Commission of India has proposed retaining the law of sedition with key amendments.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Sedition law is misused by the government to suppress the opposition
Why is the Law Commission reviewing only the Sedition law while there are hundreds of reviews remaining pending?

Letter to Law Commission
MK should write a letter to Arjun Ram Meghwal highlighting that the recommendation of the Law Commission is illegal.
Highlight the Law Commission recommendation goes against the Supreme Court order stating that Sedition law is against the current social milieu" and was intended for a time when India was under the colonial regime.
Demand that the Section 124A (Sedition Law) should be scrapped immediately.

Issue 3 | At least 10 cases of molestation detailed in 2 FIRs against Brij Bhushan
Brief | At least two instances of demanding "sexual favours" in lieu of professional assistance; at least 15 incidents of sexual harassment that include 10 episodes of inappropriate touching, molestation that includes running hands over breasts, touching the navel; several instances of intimidation including stalking - and a shared sense of fear and trauma.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Modi is scared of Brij Bhushan which is why there is no action against him.

Press Conference 
PG should conduct a press conference in Delhi, to narrate the story of the sexual harassment of minor wrestlers based on the FIR copies. 
Highlight that I have met the wrestlers and read their stories in the copies of the FIR, it is horrifying that the athletes of the country had to go through this kind of sexual harassment.
And today when they are demanding for justice the culprit is being given protection while the wrestlers are being detained by the police. 
PG should announce that she will don a pink dupatta in solidarity with the protesting wrestlers and request all women across the country to don a pink dupatta as a sign of solidarity.

Party, Social Media 
The INC social media department should reach out to influencers like Taapsee Pannu and request them to amplify the protest and be a part of the solidarity protest for the wrestlers.

Issue 4 | NMC bars 38 medical colleges from admitting MBBS students this year over 'administrative lapses'
Brief | The National Medical Commission - the country's apex regulatory body for medical education - has barred 38 medical colleges from admitting new MBBS students this year after it found them defaulting on several mandatory administrative standards, including maintaining faculty attendance records, top government sources told ThePrint Thursday.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
The seats in medical colleges are already low, by baring colleges on administrative lapses NMC is playing with the future of the students.
Instead of taking a remedial action extreme action is being taken by NMC. 

Press Byte
Kanhaiya Kumar should highlight that NMC has barred medical colleges from admitting students on the grounds of administrative lapses.
Highlighting that there are already limited seats in MBBS, this move is going to negatively impact the lives of thousands of students. 
Demand that the NMC should find resolutions and ensure colleges comply with the administrative norms instead of barring colleges from admitting students. 
Protest 
NSUI and IYC should mobilise MBBS aspirants and take out a march across all States highlighting that the students are being punished for the fault of the administration.
Highlight that there are already limited seats in MBBS and immense competition. 
Highlight that NMC should take action against administration rather than students.