National Narrative Recommendations June 15th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Delhi Police files chargesheet against Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh; no POCSO case
Brief | The Delhi Police filed a report recommending the cancellation of the POCSO case against WFI chief Brij Bhushan Sharana Singh. This comes after the minor, who had accused the WFI chief of sexual harassment changed her statement. The next date of hearing is July 4.
Actionable | Narrative stance 
BJP matlab 'Balatkari Janta Party'.
BJP ka nara hai 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' aur kaam hai 'Balatkari Bachao, Election Ladao' 
Under the BJP rule, no one is safe except rapists 

Note: In all press conferences and TV interviews, irrespective of the topic of the debate, INC leaders should preface the event by reminding the audience that the BJP is yet to suspend Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, who is accused of sexual harassment. Highlight that Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh's despicable actions have defamed India internationally, yet BJP intends to give him a party ticket in the 2024 election. 

Press conference 
Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate, senior Congress leaders Kumari Selja and Randeep Surjewala should hold press conferences and announce that nationwide protests will be held until Brij Bhushan is arrested. 
Highlight that the chargesheet against Brij Bhushan is just a mockery of the law and it will have no practical impact on Brij Bhushan as there are no non-bailable offences in it. 
The weak chargesheet has been filed to protect Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh. 
Slam PM Narendra Modi and UHM Amit Shah for protecting Brij Bhushan. 
Ask why the PM is silent on the issue? 
Highlight that the BJP deliberately delayed the action against Brij Bhushan to allow him to pressurise the victims and get the charges under POCSO Act dropped. 
How long will the Modi government continue to save a molester?
Allowing rapists like Brij Bhushan to roam freely will derail justice, as he has been pressuring the wrestlers. 
Call for Brij Bhushan's immediate arrest, and that the matter be heard in a fast-track court. 
Appeal to the people of India to save their daughters as BJP is busy saving rapists.
Display the photo of Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh wearing clothes having PM Modi's photo printed on it and ask 'if that is Modi Kavach for rapists?' 

Party, on the ground 
The IYC and NSUI should put up posters across the country with Brij Bhushan's photograph saying: Bhajpa Balatkariyon ko bacha rahi hai, aap ki betiyon ko kaun bacha raha hai?
Party workers should throw black ink on the posters, and smear them with cow dung 
The IYC should launch a rail roko andolan and chakka jam
The Mahila Morcha should gherao the BJP headquarters and BJP's UP headquarters demanding Brij Bhushan's suspension 

Congress legislators 
Congress legislators should stage a protest outside the New Parliament building, women leaders should gherao the woman and child development ministry, Delhi police headquarters

Issue 2 | Centre cuts customs duty on imports of soya-bean oil, sunflower oil to 12.5% from 17.5%
Brief | The Indian government has announced a reduction in import duty on refined soyoil and refined sunflower oil from 17.5% to 12.5%, effective from Thursday. Additionally, all crude oils, including crude palm oil, sunflower oil, and soya oil, will attract a 5% import duty, resulting in a total tax incidence of 5.5%. This decision aims to control the price of edible oil and ensure affordability for consumers.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Every act of the Modi government is to help his crony- capitalist friends. 
Modi ke mitra malamal, Desh ka Kisan hua behaal. 
'Mitrakal' is a death warrant for the farmers of the country. 

Press Byte
Siddaramiah, Kamal Nath, Nana Patole, and Deepender Hooda should give statements to the press highlighting Modi is reducing import duties on edible oils to help his friend's business while the farmers of our country are struggling for a justified price for their produce. 
Highlight that PM Modi, in an election rally in Karnataka, said, "India ko edible oil Aatma-Nirbhar banaenge" and reduce the import duty to increase the import of edible oils. 
BJP does not care about the farmers of the country, they only focus on providing money-making opportunities to their capitalist friends. 

Party, On-Ground
State PCCs should mobilise farmers unions to protest against the reduction in custom duty on the import of soya-bean oil and sunflower oil. 
Highlight, while the farmers have to protest for MSP for sunflower seeds, the BJP is reducing import prices for their capitalist friends.

Issue 3 | High Court's verdict on Uttarkashi Case: State Govt to submit response in 3 weeks
Brief | Amidst a spike in communal tension in Uttarakhand's Uttarkashi district, the Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday directed the State Government to ensure that law and order is maintained in all parts of the State and no loss of life or property of any person occurs.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Under the incompetent CM Dhami, Uttarakhand is witnessing a complete breakdown of law and order. 
The BJP government promotes disharmony in society to divert attention from its failures. 

Press Conference 
Harak Singh Rawat should hold a press conference to highlight complete chaos in the state under the BJP government. 
Question the capabilities of CM Pushakar Singh Dhami as an administrator to run the state. 
Highlight that the communal tension in Uttarkashi is the result of BJP governments unwillingness to maintain the peace in the State. 
Ask, why do we have a government, if the court has to intervene and demand action everytime there is some unrest or violence?
Highlight that a few days back section 144 was imposed in Uttarakhand's Roorkee after a clash broke out between police and villagers in Belra village over the alleged murder of a person. 
Highlight, people should know that only people who benefit from violence and riots in elections are behind this chaos and lawlessness.