National Narrative Recommendations May 31st, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Samyukta Kisan Morcha calls for nationwide protest on June 1 in support of wrestlers
Brief | Farmers' outfit Samyukta Kisan Morcha called for nationwide demonstrations on June 1 in support of the wrestlers demanding the arrest of BJP MP and WFI chief Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
'Bhajpa Se Beti Bachao kyunki Bhajpa Balatkariyon ko Bachane me lagi hai'.
When the athletes win medals for the country, BJP leaders run to meet them, for months they have been demanding justice and no BJP leader is listening to them.

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference in Delhi to demand the arrest of Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh. 
Highlighting the inaction and silence of the BJP in the matter has been shocking. 
Narendra Modi has not said a word in the matter, we ask why is it so difficult for the BJP to suspend Brij Bhushan's primary membership of BJP?
Why is BJP giving unconditional protection to a man accused of harassment of women athletes, why is the BJP mistreating the women who have brought pride to the country? 

Letter to Narendra Modi
MK should write a letter to Narendra Modi highlighting the daughters of India have been demanding justice for over a month, there has been no resolution.
Highlight that the BJP leader accused of harassment has been roaming around freely, while the daughters of India who brought medals for the country are being detained and lathi charged.
Request the PM to take immediate action and demand for removal of Brij Bhushan from all posts.

Protest Site, PG
PG should meet the women wrestlers highlighting the Congress party stands with them in their fight till they get justice. 

All Party Meeting
MK should hold an all party meeting with alliance partners and give a call for Bharat Bandh in solidarity with the protesting wrestlers.

Party, On-Ground
INC should organise a Jagrata in temple premises in every state capital for women safety in the country. 
Mahila Congress leaders should join the hunger strike in solidarity with the protesting wrestlers. 
PCC incharges of Delhi, Haryana and Punjab should mobilise people and ask them to join the protesting wrestlers at India Gate.
Across all states INC should hold a one-day hunger strike in solidarity with the wrestlers.
DPCC incharges should hold a mashaal march across all districts demanding immediate resolution to the demands of the wrestlers.

Party, Social Media 
All INC leaders should tweet demanding suspension of Brij Bhushan from BJPs primary membership.
Highlight that Brij Bhushan is roaming around freely while the wrestlers are being mistreated by the police.
Why is the BJP not taking action against Brij Bhushan?
Why does the BJP leadership always protect rapists?

Issue 2 | Modi government gives fresh push to lateral recruitment, decides to induct 17 private sector specialists
Brief | This is the fourth such recruitment drive proposed to be undertaken by the Narendra Modi government which had in 2018 initiated lateral entry-referred to as the appointment of private sector specialists in government departments-to bring fresh talent and augment the availability of manpower.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP is anti-OBC, SC and ST that is why they are trying to destroy the reservation system.
BJP is giving jobs to its own people through lateral entry and taking away the jobs of the SC,ST and OBC.

Press Conference, Delhi 
Sachin Pilot and Kanhaiya Kumar should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight that the BJP government is trying to dilute reservations in government jobs and trying to appoint their own people across all the verticals of governance.
Highlight that the BJP government is not fulfilling the current vacancies for OBC, SC and STs. 
BJP is trying to disrupt the recruitment process for government jobs in the country.
Highlight how in Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand people close to RSS were hired in government jobs and the actual applicants were not even taken into consideration.
Emphasising that there are very few government jobs for which people prepare for years, the BJP is taking away the opportunities from deserving candidates and appointing RSS people.
Demand that the notification be scrapped and give an ultimatum that if the government does not scrap the notification there will be widespread protests across the country. 

Press Conference in all States
All INC CMs should hold a press conference in their respective States to highlight the issue of BJP trying to disrupt the recruitment process for government jobs and appoint their own people. 
Highlight that the RSS people will not have to sit for competitive exams they are appointed by the BJP without following due process whereas common aspirants will have to give exams and fight an unfair fight to get a government job. 

Editorial Article 
Kanhaiya Kumar should write an op-ed article emphasising on how the BJP is gradually removing reservation from government jobs and appointing its own people.

Party, On-Ground 
DPCC incharges in MP, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan should conduct a door-to-door exercise distributing pamphlets with the message that BJP is destroying the reservation
Highlight through lateral entry BJP trying to hijack jobs reserved for SC,ST and OBC communities for their own people.
DPCC incharges in MP, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan should hold public meetings in all districts highlighting that BJP is trying to dilute the reservation.
PCC incharges should hold rallies across all states highlighting that BJP is destroying reservation.
INC frontals should reach out to OBC mahasabhas and other affiliate organisations to amplify the message that BJP is trying to dilute reservation in government job appointments. 
INC cadre should identify coaching institutes and student hotspots to distribute flyers with the message of how the BJP is trying to appoint its own people and cutting the chance of a common aspirant to get a government job.
Party should distribute pamphlets through newspaper inserts with the message BJP is trying to appoint its own people and cutting the chance of a common aspirant to get a government job.

Issue 3 | 51.3 million people were employed in India's manufacturing sector. By 2022-23, the number had fallen by 16 million to 35.6 million -31% less than 2016-17
Brief | In 2016-17, 51.3 million people worked in India's manufacturing sector. As the economy slowed down, this number fell sharply from 2017 onwards. At the end of March 2023 it stands at 35.6 million - 31% fewer than 2016-17.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP has failed to create jobs in the country, Kahan gayi 18 crore naukri?

Editorial
P.C Chidambaram should write an editorial highlighting the failure of the Modi government to create jobs in the last 9 Years. 
Highlight the failure of Make in India to generate jobs in the country.
Highlight that instead of creating jobs the wrong policies of GST and demonetisation has led to loss of jobs of crores of Indians. 
Regional language newspapers should publish opinion editorials to highlight how Make in India was a failed mission. 

Party , On-ground
DPCC should collect testimonials from people who had lost their jobs during COVID 19 and due to GST and demonetisation. 
DPCC should organise a protest at the job fairs conducted by the government in which they distribute appointment letters.
Highlight that the policies brought by the Modi government - GST and Demonetisation has caused a loss of employment. 
The Modi government did not provide jobs to people who lost their jobs during COVID.

Party, Social Media 
All INC leaders should tweet that the BJP has failed to create jobs in India, amplifying that Make in India is a big failure. 
Post testimonial of those who have lost jobs due to wrong policies of the BJP government. 
Hashtag #FakeitIndia

Issue 4 | Excise Policy scam: Manish Sisodia generated Rs 622.67 cr POC, says ED
Brief | The Enforcement Directorate's (ED) ongoing probe into the Delhi's Excise Policy scam has revealed that former Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had allegedly generated Rs 622.67 crore Proceeds of Crime (POC) through different modus operandi.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
AAP has been using the funds of Delhi and Punjab for its political expansion. 
Arvind Kejriwal is Mahachor, taking the money of the people and using it for his own gains. 
AAP has been using Delhi and Punjab as his personal ATM machine, whenever he is low on funds he withdraws people's money for his political stunts . 

Press Conference 
Sandeep Dixit should hold a press conference in Delhi to give a statement highlighting that Arvind Kejriwal is using Delhi and Punjab people's money to build his party in other states. 
Highlight that the money which should have been used for people's development is getting used for Aam Aadmi Party's personal use. 
Ask where those 622 crores have gone? 
Raja Warring should hold a press conference in Punjab stating the same. 

Letter to Kejriwal 
Sandeep Dixit and Navjot Singh Siddu should write a letter to Arvind Kejriwal asking why the corruption is increasing in the states and where the money goes? 
Should express concern regarding the use of money of Delhi and Punjab's people for the party's personal use. 

Party , On-Ground 
IYC and NSUI cadre should hold a protest demanding resignation of Arvind Kejriwal . 
Delhi PCC should paste posters of '622 crore , Manish Sisodia chor' , ' Manish Sisodia chor , Kejriwal Mahachor' , ' Bhrasht Kejriwal' across Delhi.