National Narrative Recommendations May 29th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Wrestlers' protest | FIR against organisers, others on charges of rioting, obstructing public servant
Brief | The Delhi Police booked the organisers of the wrestlers' protest at Jantar Mantar and their supporters on charges of rioting and obstructing public servants in discharge of duty after some of them were detained while marching to the new Parliament building.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
When Modi was inaugurating the new Parliament building, democracy was being murdered outside. 
The inauguration of the Parliament was treated as his coronation by Modi. 

Note: All upcoming press conferences highlight the issue of the wrestlers. And highlight how the BJP government has treated and disrespected the daughters of India who brought pride and honour to the country.

Protest Across the Country 
Across all States organise a permanent sit-in protest at major hotspot/junction in until the wrestlers are given justice. Create protest sites similar to Jantar Mantar in all States.
State PCC incharges should replicate the protest at Jantar Mantar at all State capitals in solidarity with the female wrestlers.
All the protestors will wear a black band or black clothes. 
Mobilisation of local sports-persons and neutral influencers to come out in support of the female wrestlers. 
INC should mobilise sportspersons across India and hold a one-day solidarity sit-in protest in all States. 
Give a call of "Delhi Chalo" at the end of the one day state protest to support the protesting female wrestlers. 
State IYC and NSUI units should mobilise students from across universities and colleges in the State and march across the country to demand justice for the wrestlers.
Demand for immediate arrest of Brij Bhushan and apology from the Delhi Police for using force against the wrestlers. 
Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress should hold a march in all the ACs of Delhi with placards and black bands. 
INC cadres should distribute "I Stand with the Wrestlers" car stickers and buttons on toll plazas.

Issue 2 | Manipur Violence:
40 extremists killed in encounters: Manipur Chief Minister Biren Singh
Amit Shah to visit Manipur today
Kharge- led Congress delegation to meet President on 30th June
Brief | Manipur violence is aggravating day by day . After three weeks , Amit Shah has decided to visit Manipur.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Modi and Amit Shah were busy attending their planned events for a month while Manipur was burning 
Modi was busy touring other countries and inaugurating things while innocent people were dying in Manipur
Amit Shah's priority is power not people. 

Press Conference 
Rakibul Hussain, Rana Goswami and Bharat Narah should hold a press conference to highlight that the Manipur issue has not been resolved yet, there is on-going violence for a month.
Amit Shah and Modi let Manipur burn, while they were busy attending their planned events that were more to them than the lives of the people of Manipur.
Highlighting that HM Amit Shah was busy first completing the Karnataka elections, then the Prime Minister went to Sydney , both did not have time to visit Manipur. 
After a month of on-going violence and several innocent people's death Amit Shah is thinking of visiting Manipur. 
Amit Shah only makes vote centric decisions and does not care about the people. 

Party , On-ground
State PCC across the States of Northeast and Delhi along with state IYC and NSUI cadres should hold a protest against the incompetence and ignorance of the BJP government to control the violence in Manipur.

Issue 3 | India facing 'very complicated challenge' from China, says S Jaishankar
Brief | External Minister S Jaishankar said that India faces a 'very complicated challenge' from China and assures that no attempts are made to change the status quo in the border area unilaterally.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
The Modi government has surrendered infront of China.
It is only for TV that Modi makes big statements like "China ko lal aankh dikhange". 
Jaishankar has taken no tough stance on China. 
Modi has let China enter Indian territory, Modi is unable to tackle the threat from China. 
 
Press Conference 
Shashi Tharoor should hold a press conference to give a statement to highlight the chronology of the events resulting in the changing stance of the Modi government on China. 
Highlight that even after Modi becoming friendly with Xi Jinping , China continues to attack India. 
Highlight Modi is played by Xi Jinping, Modi goes and meets Xi and the next thing China does is enter Indian territory. 
Jai Shankar is ineffective in handling the issue of China, he has a different stance when he is in India and a different stance when he goes outside India. 

Press Note 
Jairam Ramesh should release a press note highlighting Jai Shankar's ineffectiveness in handling the China issue. 
Highlight that Jai Shankar has failed the country , BJP has failed the country. 

Party, On-Ground
The Ex-Servicemen Department should reach out to army veterans and experts to highlight the incoherent stance on China. 
Highlight the rising threat and China's attempt to control Indian territory. 
Highlight that the BJP government is allowing China to enter the Indian border.