National Narrative Recommendations June 22nd, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Amit Shah calls all-party meeting on June 24
Brief | Union Home Minister Amit Shah has convened an all-party meeting on June 24 in New Delhi to discuss the situation in the state which has been roiled by ethnic clashes since May 3 that have claimed more than 110 lives and hardened ethnic fault-lines.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Congress party has been asking for an amicable solution to the Manipur crisis, but for the BJP government, it took 50 days, more than 100 deaths, and more than 50000 displacements to show seriousness. 
If the BJP government had shown seriousness from day one, hundreds of lives could have been saved. 
BJP humesha tabahi ke baad hi kyun jagti hai?

Letter to Home Minister
MK should write a letter to Amit Shah highlighting that the BJP government is 50 days too late to find a resolution to the on-going violence in Manipur. 
Highlight that INC will be attending the meeting as Manipur is in a fragile state and we want a peaceful resolution. 
Emphasise that the BJP government has failed to handle the Manipur crisis and it is a necessity to impose President's Rule before anymore damage is done.

Party, On-Ground
Opposition parties should observe 2 minutes silence at the all opposition meet and all party meeting for all the lives lost in Manipur violence.
At the all opposition meeting in Patna on 23rd June 2023, all the opposition parties should take a resolution that at the all party meeting called by Amit Shah all opposition parties will take a unified stand. 
Highlighting that Amit Shah has been very late in calling this meeting, we will attend the meeting only because the opposition is concerned about the deteriorating situation in Manipur. 
At the all-party meeting all leaders of INC and opposition should wear a Manipuri scarf or black clothes to the all party meeting to mark their protest against the long silence and inaction of the BJP government. 
At the all party-meeting INC should give a "Charter of Demands for Manipur"
Immediate imposition of President's Rule. 
Allow all-party delegation to visit Manipur, to take into account the ground realities.
Formation of a peace committee consisting of members from both communities, and joint peace talks. 
The PM should visit Manipur and meet members of both the communities.
Creation of a relief forum for all Manipuri people inside and outside of Manipur for support and immediate redressal to their issues. 

 Party, Social Media
All Senior INC leaders should post a video message to express condolence to the lives lost in Manipur and concern over the on-going violence. Request the Manipur people to maintain peace.
All leaders should post the "Charter of Demands for Manipur" on their social media handles.
All INC leaders and official handles should post "It took 50 days for HM to hold an all party meeting, how many days will it take for the PM to speak on the Manipur issue?"

Issue 2 | Two to boycott Modi's speech, 75 Democrats in US Congress urge Biden to raise rights issues in talks with him
Brief | As many as 75 members of the United States Congress urged President Joe Biden to convey to PM Narendra Modi concerns over the reports about growing religious intolerance, shrinking of political space, curbs on freedom of the press and erosion of human rights in India. Two members of the American House of Representatives - Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar - also announced their decision to boycott the PM's address.
Actionable | Narrative stance 
The US senators are not just boycotting Modi, they are boycotting India. 
Modi's actions have brought shame to India on an international forum. 
The Indian PM was not accorded state welcome, yet he wants to give US money, jobs. 

Party, Social Media 
Highlight that he is the first Prime Minister of India who is facing protests in the United States during his state visit. 
The Prime Minister Narendra Modi is representing the whole country during this visit, any insult to the Prime Minister of India is an insult to the entire nation.