National Narrative Recommendations June 3rd, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Coromandel train accident: Killed -233, Injured- 900
Brief | At least 280 people died and over 900 were injured in an accident on Friday, June 2, after a collision occurred between the Coromandel Express and the Bengaluru-Howrah Superfast Express.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Jitna Samay aur Paisa ye Sarkar prachar me Kharch karti hai agar uska aadha bhi railway ke maintenance pe Kharch karti toh ye Durghatana nhin hoti jisme saikadon logon Ki Jaan chali gayi. 

Visit Balasore
PG and MK should visit Balasore to meet the victims of the accident and pay condolence to those who died in this accident.
All INC Odisha leaders should visit the families of the deceased and meet the injured at hospitals.
Announce formation of a Congress relief response team to help people in getting information and provide immediate relief. 
First responder team consisting of Navjyoti Patnaik, Yashir Nawaz and Manas Choudhury.

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to pay condolence to the victims of the Balasore train accident. 
Highlight that more than 1.4 lakh rail safety staff posts are vacant in the country
Demand that the government should immediately recruit the rail safety staff to avoid such unfortunate incidents in future. 

Party, On-Ground
RG should observe 2 minutes of silence to pay respect to those who lost their lives before starting the events today. 
Seva Dal, IYC and NSUI should set-up relief camps at the site of the accident to provide food, water and assistance to the people.
Seva Dal should start a food service at the hospitals where the injured are being taken for treatment. 
State Presidents should hold a shradhanjali sabha in all States, to pay condolence to the lost lives.
NSUI and IYC should start a blood donation drive at the hospitals where the injured are being treated. Mobilise people and donate blood. 

Party, Social Media
All INC handles should amplify the helpline numbers for relief and response. 
INC Odisha handle should keep updating all new information and details to help people. 
All INC leaders should post a condolence message for victims of the accident. 
INC handles should post a graphic highlighting the focus of BJP on trains for the rich in comparison to ignorance of the trains for the poor.
All leaders should tweet that the BJP government is focused on vanity projects and ignoring the real issues of maintenance of general trains, overcrowding and maintenance of tracks.

Issue 2 | Five guarantees to be implemented this financial year starting with Shakti on June 11: Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah
Brief | As per the post-Cabinet meeting announcement by Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Friday (June 2), while Shakti will be launched on June 11, the Anna Bhagya scheme of 10 kgs free foodgrain per head for BPL and Antyodaya card holders families and the Gruha Jyothi scheme of 200 units of free power will be launched on July 1.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Congress hai toh Bharosa hai. 
Congress Jo kahti hai, Congress Vo karti hai. 
Congress governments across the country have best schemes for common people. 

Press Conference 
All senior State leaders and PCC incharges should hold press conferences in their States to amplify the Congress model of governance and amplify that Congress means Guarantee.
Highlight the implementation of the 5 promises by the INC Karnataka government.
Highlight the successful implementation of schemes in all INC governed States

Party, On-Ground 
PCC incharges should hold public meetings in INC governed States that will be addressed by the CMs to highlight the Congress Model of Governance. 
All the congress CMs should meet on a regular interval to discuss the schemes they have implemented in their states and can be replicated in other Congress-run states. 
Highlight the Congress model of governance - works for the poor , for the development and prosperity. 

Party , Social Media 
All INC leaders should post on their SM handles congratulating the Karnataka government for starting the implementation of the promises. 
Highlight the congress model of governance - development centric.
Highlight that Congress does not believe in Jumlas , believes in working for people. 
All INC leaders and party workers should put their display picture with filters - Congress means Guarantee , Congress hai toh Guarantee hai. 

Advertisements 
INC should give advertisements in prominent newspapers highlighting the successful schemes Congress has introduced and implemented in Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Karnataka. 
Highlight that the Karnataka government will also work in the favour of the people. 
Hoardings and electronic boards across Bangalore - ' We delivered what we promised'.