National Narrative Recommendations June 20th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Mansukh Mandaviya chaired a high-level meeting to review public health preparedness to deal with the heatwave
Brief | The Union health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya chaired a high-level meeting to review public health preparedness to deal with heatwave conditions prevailing in parts of the country and instructed officials of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to prevent heatstroke deaths.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Bhajpa aapda rokne ka koi prayas nhin karti, bas aapda ke baad usme awasar khojati hai. 
The BJP government is not prepared for anything. During every crisis, only when people start dying BJP wakes up from its slumber. 

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to highlight that the BJP government is always unprepared to deal with any crisis that the country faces.
The country witnessed the worst crisis in human history during COVID, even when RG warned the government about the impending COVID pandemic. 
The BJP government chose to ignore RGs warning and remained unprepared to deal with the pandemic. 
Question: whenever there is an emergency in the country why is BJP always unprepared?
Even during COVID BJP failed to understand the severity of the situation and acted too late. 
The inaction and unpreparedness of BJP has led to deaths of hundreds under the BJP government.
Now the BJP is taking a review of the preparedness to deal with heatwave. By the end of June, these high level review meetings should have taken place before summer arrived. 
In Ballia District Hospital there have been more than 60 deaths and 400 hospitalisations due to heatwave in the last 5 days. 
 Just to hide their own incompetence and unpreparedness the BJP government removes people like the Chief of Ballia district hospital for bringing out the truth. 

Party, On-Ground
INC governed States should release safety public guidelines to be followed by people during heatwave. 
IYC and NSUI should set-up water kiosks outside hospitals.
Along with hospitals INC should set-up water coolers at court-houses and block offices in heat wave affected states.
Seva Dal should announce a toll free helpline number for arranging ambulances for people to reach hospitals from far off regions. 
INC should organise a blood donation drive.

Issue 2 | Three Delegations From Violence-Struck Manipur Have Failed to Meet PM Modi
Brief | At least three delegations of politicians from conflict-ridden Manipur - two from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and one from the state Congress - have failed to have an audience with Prime Minister Narendra Modi so far in spite of having camped at the National Capital for some days now.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Manipur has been burning for 50 days and Modi has been busy travelling. 
Modi is planning a grand celebration with NRIs while our own people are dying in Manipur. 

Manipur ki Baat 
INC should organise a public meeting "Manipur ki Baat" at Jantar Mantar to highlight the issue that Manipur is burning and Modi is touring 
Invite all three delegations that tried to meet PM Modi to highlight the failures of the BJP government to find a peaceful resolution in Manipur.
Highlight that as BJP is busy hiding its face from the failures in containing violence in Manipur. 
It is the responsibility of the opposition parties to come together and ensure that communities come together and find a peaceful resolution.
Invite students and displaced people from Manipur. 

Party, Social Media 
All INC leaders should post creative built on the "Telegraph Maunasan pose" to highlight "Manipur jal raha hai modi ankhee band" 
Link: https: //twitter.com/bhogleharsha/status/1670410906076086273
INC leaders should post recommendations to Amit Shah on how to deal with the crisis in Manipur.

Party, On-Social Media 
Start a twitter trend #ManipurBurningModiTouring
All INC leaders should post a graphic of what Modi has done in the 50 days since violence erupted in Manipur instead of speaking for the people of Manipur. 
Trip to Australia, Japan and Papua New Guinea
7 days of public meetings and roadshows for Karnataka elections
Inaugurating the new Parliament building 
Inauguration of Vande Bharat trains 
2 Mann Ki Baat Episodes 
Planning to visit US and Egypt