National Narrative Recommendations June 5th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Manipur crisis: Lack of medicines, cash; rice, vegetable prices shoot up, petrol at Rs 200
Brief | The situation in Manipur has been dire ever since violence broke out between the Meitei and Kuki communities a month ago. As of now, the prices of essential commodities have shot up in the hill state and there is a shortage of life-saving drugs. On
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Amit Shah has failed to find resolution in Manipur. 
Amit Shah's 3 day visit was a political formality, nothing changed after his visit. 

Party, On-Ground 
INC governed states should send relief packages consisting essential commodities and medicines to DMs of worst violence affected areas in Manipur. 
PCC incharge Okram Ibobi Singh should ensure distribution supply of basic commodities and medicines to the people of Manipur.

Bharat Jodo Peace Committees 
PCC should form Bharat Jodo Committees composed of representatives from both the communities to find resolution and initiate peace conversation. 

Manipur Jodo Yatra
RG should start a Manipur Jodo Yatra, walking across Manipur and meeting with members of the both communities. 
Alternative: RG should take out a Manipur Jodo Yatra in Delhi with the students and residents of Manipur to demand immediate resolution of conflict.

Issue 2 | Wrestlers resume government duty but refuse to end protest against Brij Bhushan
Brief | Top wrestlers, including Sakshi Malik, Vinesh Phogat and Bajrang Punia, protesting against Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) chief Brij Bhushan Singh, resumed their government services. However, they refuted reports of having backtracked from the protest.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Aap chronology samjhaye 2 din pehle Amit Shah wrestlers se mile aur un par pressure banaya . 
Brij Bhushan ko suraksha dene ke liye Amit Shah desh ki betiyon par dabaw daal rahe hain.
First the wrestlers were harassed by Brij Bhushan, now they are being harassed by Amit Shah. 

Press Conference 
Alka Lamba and Ragini Naik should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight that Amit Shah is trying to intimidate the wrestlers. 
Highlight Brij Bhushan ko arrest karne ki jagah Amit Shah putting pressure on wrestlers 
Demand immediate arrest of Brij Bhushan 

Party, On-Ground 
PCC should organise a candlelight march at the protest site against the intimidation of Amit Shah. 
In Haryana, file an FIR against Amit Shah for intimidation of wrestlers fighting for justice by a sportsperson. 
INC should mobilise child rights organisations to file PILs in Supreme Court for the arrest of Brij Bhushan.

Issue 3 | Why CBI Is Investigating Odisha Train Tragedy
Brief | The three-train tragedy in Odisha's Balasore, which left 275 dead and around 1,000 injured, will be investigated by the CBI. The move is significant as sources say only a detailed probe by a top agency can establish criminal tampering, if any, with the point machine or the electronic interlocking system, or if the train changed tracks due to reconfiguration or a signalling error.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
More than 280 people died, yet no one has taken the responsibility. 
INC will not let the deceased of the Balasore tragedy be forgotten.

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference to demand a judicial probe instead of a CBI inquiry in the Balasore train tragedy.

Party, On-Ground
OPCC should visit the injured in the hospitals.
OPCC should announce the construction of a memorial in remembrance of those who lost their lives in the Balasore tragedy. 
Highlight that we will not let forget those who lost their lives.

Issue 4 | 14L families in Rajasthan to get Rs 640 LPG subsidy
Brief | Around 14 lakh families of Rajasthan will get subsidies worth Rs 640 each under Indira Gandhi Gas Cylinder Subsidy Scheme.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
INC Model of Governance 
Congress hai toh Bharosa hai. 
Congress Jo kahti hai, Congress Vo karti hai. 

Press Byte
All CMs of INC led States should give a statement to the media welcoming the implementation of the Indira Gandhi Gas Cylinder Subsidy Scheme in Rajasthan.
Highlight the Congress model of governance and adoption of the promises made by INC are fulfilled.

Party, On-Ground 
PCC incharges should hold public meetings in INC governed States that will be addressed by the CMs to highlight the Congress Model of Governance.

Party, Social Media 
All INC leaders should amplify the Indira Gandhi Gas Cylinder Subsidy Scheme implementation in Rajasthan with the hashtag #INCModelOfGovernance.
All INC leaders and party workers should put their display picture with filters - Congress means Guarantee , Congress hai toh Guarantee hai.