National Narrative Recommendations June 1st, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Congress's "Formula Of Guarantees" Will Leave Country Bankrupt: PM Modi
Brief | On a visit to Ajmer and Pushkar as part of the BJP's public outreach or Jan Sampark Abhiyan. PM Modi said: "The Congress has a new formula of guarantees. But are they fulfilling their guarantees? Their guarantees will leave the country bankrupt."
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Ameeron ko dene ke liye hazaron crore rupaye hain Modi Sarkar ke paas, par Gareeb ko 2000 rupaye dene par Modi ji ko takleef hoti hai. 
Agar Modi Ji ne apne Wade ke anusaar har saal 2 crore jobs diye hote toh aaj Bharat ke yuvaon ko Berojgari Bhatta nhin dena padta. 
Modi Ji gave thousands of crores to his crony capitalist friends but he has a problem when the Congress government is giving Rs 2000 to the women of our country. 
INC uplifted more than 27 crore people out of poverty in 10 years of Dr Manmohan Singh government while Modi government has pushed crores of people back into poverty in last 9 years. 
Everyone in this country pays tax - directly or indirectly, therefore, it's the government's responsibility to ensure the welfare of everyone. 

Press Conference 
All CMs of INC- ruled States should hold a press conference in their respective States to highlight the failures of the central government to create jobs in the country.
All INC CMs should put out beneficiary numbers and economic numbers for comparison and highlight that it is possible to guarantee welfare to people if you run a non- corrupt government. 
Highlight that since BJP has come to power in the country, crores of people have lost jobs, Congress brought people out of poverty whereas in the last 9 years BJP has pushed people back into poverty. 
Highlight that if the BJP did not create the crisis of unemployment in the country INC governments would have to bring in schemes to support the people. 
The schemes for the people of the country is not a luxury, it is a necessity and the responsibility of the governments to take care of the people of the country who have paid taxes to the government. 
There is rising unemployment and financial distress in the country, the rich friends of Modi Ji are enjoying all subsidies and easily avail loans, but for Modi Ji providing benefits to the poor people of the country is a burden.
PM Modi's rich friends are minting money and running away with the country's money, while the poor are struggling to even avail loans and the government is giving them no relief.
The PM should come out and clearly state that he does not want to support the poor people of the country. 

Party, On-Ground
DPCC incharges in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka should ensure collection of testimonials from scheme beneficiaries. 
Highlighting the impact of wrong BJP policies and how INC schemes have helped them to live a better life.

Party, Social Media
All leaders should tweet that the money spent by Modi on his travel, clothes, domestic and international events could have been used to sponsor lakhs of beneficiaries.

Issue 2 | Global Oil Prices Fall By 40-50%, But Indian Consumers Still Overpaying
Brief | Consumers are now overpaying for fuels after international rates of petrol and diesel crashed 40 to 50% from last year's record levels
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Jab duniya me Tel ke daam badhte hain to Modi ji ke mitra turant hi tel ke daam badha dete hain, Par jab wahan tel ke daam kam ho gye to Modi ji ke mitra bharat ke janta se extra vasooli kar rahe hain. 
Inflation is the result of the Modi government's wrong policies.
Why are the petrol prices not coming down in India, while fuel prices are falling globally?

Editorial 
P. Chidambaram should write an editorial highlighting that globally the prices of fuel have decreased, whereas the fuel prices in India keep growing exponentially.
Highlight that when Congress was in power petrol prices were controlled by the government. BJP has failed to control price rise in the country.

Party, Social Media
All leaders should tweet highlighting that the price rise in the country has been a creation of BJP. Why are Indian consumers overpaying for fuel? Where is this money going?

Issue 3 | Kapurthala Factory Failed to Deliver Even One Vande Bharat Train in 2022-23. Target Was 32
Brief | The coach factory blamed the spike in the prices of raw material, and the subsequent shortfall in the supply of electrical components, for the failure to deliver the 32 Vande Bharat trains in 2022-23
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP has failed to deliver on all the promises that they made. 
Due to price rise the BJP government has itself failed and is struggling to meet the promises.
Modi Ji ke railway inauguration par itna paise kharch ho raha hai ki train banane ke liye paisa nahi hai 

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference at a railway station highlighting that a premium production unit like Kapurthala Rail Coach Factory is unable to produce trains due to price rise.
Where is 'Make in India'? 
Why are all Vande Bharat projects incomplete? 
The BJP government has only introduced trains for the rich. Why are there no new trains for the poor? How will the poor people of the country travel?
Highlight where are the trains for the poor people of the country?

Party, Social Media
All leaders should post graphics of incomplete Vande Bharat trains with the title expectation v/s reality.
The INC cadre should collect testimonials of people travelling in Vande Bharata and make video statements that Vande Bharat is no different from any other train in the country. Post the testimonials on all INC social media handles.

Issue 6 | Ayodhya sadhus to join Brij Bhushan Singh maha rally
Brief | The seers, saints and sages behind the protest have one demand: Dilute the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. At the forefront, mobilising the masses across Uttar Pradesh is Brij Bhushan himself, the man accused of sexually harassing women wrestlers.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP ke raaj mei balatkari desh Chalayenge?
Modi is scared of Brij Bhushan that is why there is no action against him.

Press Conference
PG should hold a press conference highlighting that it is bizarre that an accused of sexual harassment is organising a grand event while the women wrestlers of the country are being mistreated for demanding justice. 
Modi's followers claim that he is bigger than god but I believe that he is scared of Brij Bhushan otherwise the wrestlers of the country would not have to come out on the streets to demand for justice 
Modi Ji kyun Brij Bhushan ke samne jhuk gaye hain? 
Highlighting that Brij Bhushan is a criminal, he confessed on camera to committing murders. Why is the PM scared of a criminal like Brij Bhushan?
A criminal is challenging the Indian law and demanding for changing the POCSO Act. Tomorrow will Modi give free hand to all criminals to change the Indian law so that they can keep committing crimes without being punished?

Party, On-Ground
UP Mahila Congress should hold a silent human chain protest with the placards "balatkari ab tay karenge ke desh kaise chalega" outside of UP Vidhan Sabha.

Note: Do not attack the seers attending the event., focus on Brijbhushan and PM Modi.