National Narrative Recommendations June 23rd, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Opposition Meet- AAP v/s INC
Brief | The first joint meeting of several Opposition parties from across the country, ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, was held in Patna. Differences cropped up between AAP and the Congress during the meeting, where the former made it clear that it would be "very difficult" for it to be part of an alliance until the Grand Old Party denounced the Centre's ordinance in Delhi.
Actionable | Narrative stance 
United Opposition ki ladai janta ke muddon ki ladai hai, Kejriwal ke ego ki nahi. 
In the fight against Modi's tyranny, the whole country is supporting RG, barring AAP. 

Note: INC leaders should avoid making statements saying 'Congress cannot win alone' 

Press Conference 
Supriya Shrinate should address a press conference saying Arvind Kejriwal wants to save the CM's chair rather than defeat the BJP in the 2024 elections 
The opposition unity is to fight for the larger issues pertaining in the country. This meeting was not to further one party's political agenda.
AAP is making bizarre accusations that INC and BJP are in agreement with each other, which no one in the country believes. 
Why did the AAP attend the all-opposition meet when they don't believe in opposition unity?
It seems that the BJP has tasked AAP to create obstacles against the opposition unity. 
Highlight that all the opposition parties are aligned to fight against the tyrant BJP government. 
This election will be fought on the issues of the people.

Issue 2 | In MP, 7 Dalit houses built under PM Awas Yojana were demolished, ex-CM protests
Brief | Seven homes belonging to Dalit families were demolished in Madhya Pradesh's Sagar district following which former CM Digvijaya Singh sat on a protest at the site, demanding compensation for the families. The homes built under the PM Awas Yojana scheme were allegedly on forest land and notices had been served a year ago.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP's failure to implement a scheme resulted in harassment of Dalit and marginalised communities.
Dalit- virodhi Bhajpa sarkar me Daliton ke upar atyachar badhta hi ja rha hai. 
Bhajpa ko sirf Dalit vote lene ke time yaad aate hain, Daliton par jab atyachar hota hai vo Bhajpa ko Dikhai nahi deta. 
Press Byte
MK should give a statement highlighting that the BJP government is anti-Dalits and Adivasis, they have time and used force to persecute marginalized communities. 
Highlight that BJP has demolished houses of Dalit families that were built under the PM Awas Yojana. 
Why were the houses of Dalit families demolished the BJP government needs to answer. 
The claim that the houses were built on forest land is just an excuse of the BJP government to further harass Dalit families. 

Party, Social Media
RG should tweet about the unjustified demolition of the houses of Dalit families in Madhya Pradesh. 
Highlight that the BJP government is anti-Dalit and Adivasis, the atrocities against Dalits and Adivasis cannot be ignored.

Issue 2 | Haryana says 54 farmer-friendly schemes launched in 9 yrs, farm union leaders: 'only on paper'
Brief | Haryana is witnessing a spurt of farmers' protest at various places across the state with several farm unions consistently raising their discontent against the government. While the ruling government says that despite several farmer-welfare schemes in place, they are being misled by the opposition for their vested interests, farmers on the other hand say that most of the government schemes are barely "announcements on paper".
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Pichhle 9 saal se Kisan BJP Sarkar ki lathiyan kha raha hai. 
Jan- Virodhi BJP sarkar ki kisano ke liye sirf ek scheme hai- Lathi Charge. 

Press Conference 
Deepender Hooda should hold a press conference to expose the anti-farmer attitude of the Khattar government.
Highlight that BJP's big claims of launching 54 farmer-friendly schemes in the last 9 years is another Jumla. 
Ask, if the BJP has brought so many farmer-friendly schemes, why are farmers protesting against the BJP governments across Haryana? 
Highlight that the BJP government has been only introducing anti-farmers policies. 
Ever since BJP has come to power in Haryana and Delhi, the input cost has increased by an average of Rs.25000 per hectare. 
BJP has used force to suppress the voices of the farmers, 750 farmers died during the black farm law. 
The farmers across the country have been protesting against the anti-farmers policies of the BJP government for the past 9 years 
In 2015 and 2016 farmers in Haryana held a mass protest against delayed compensation for crop loss, lack of adequate compensation and high tariffs.
In 2017, a large-scale protest was organised in Haryana to demand for better prices for produce and large-scale farm loan waivers 
In 2018, farmers in seven States including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh demanded complete loan waiver, minimum support price for their yield and assurance of permanent minimum income from the government. 
In 2018, 80,000 farmers belonging to 20 farmers' unions protested against the Modi government.
In 2020, farmers protested for 378 days against the anti-farmer bill.

Issue 4 | Mumbai stares at severe scarcity as only 7% water left in 7 dams
Brief | The dams that supply drinking water to Mumbai are drying up fast with only seven per cent storage left. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the delay in monsoon arrival in Maharashtra has resulted in major water problems for Mumbai residents.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Maharashtra has been facing a water crisis for a long time. Why did the Fadnavis-Shinde government not prepare a water management strategy?
The Fadnavis-Shinde government is busy fighting amongst themselves for the CM post, while people of Maharashtra are struggling with multiple issues. 

Press Conference
Nana Patole, Ashok Chavan, Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil, and Uddhav Thackery should hold a joint press conference to highlight that Maharashtra has been facing a water crisis for so long, the government had the time to prepare a water management strategy. 
The Fadnavis-Shinde government has mismanaged the water crisis, they were informed about the delay in the monsoon. 
The BJP government is incompetent to deal with any issues concerning the people. 
The only focus of the Fadnavis-Shindne government is who gets the power in Maharashtra.