National Narrative Recommendations June 26th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Jolt to BRS, over 12 former ministers, MLAs join Congress
Brief | 1. Former BRS leaders, Ponguleti Srinivas Reddy and Jupally Krishna Rao, have joined the INC. 

2. Former BJP MLA from Katni, MP Dhruv Pratap Singh joined the INC, along with another leader Shankar Mahto, in the presence of former CMs Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh at an event in Bhopal.
Actionable | Note: All the new members joining the party should be inducted in the party at a major event held in New Delhi at the INC headquarters followed by a mega rally in their home districts attended by state level senior INC leaders.

Narrative Stance 
Hawa badal rahi hai - 24 me Congress aa rahi hai. 
What happened in Karnataka will happen in the entire country in 2024. 
Experienced people know that INC's victory is imminent. 

Press Conference, Delhi
KC Venugopal should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight the number of people who have joined INC in the last couple of months especially in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, and Chhattisgarh. 
Highlight that today everyone believes in the INC leadership of Shri Rahul Gandhi and his message of unity and brotherhood. 
Highlight that the INC is growing stronger everyday and will win all four states - Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, and Telangana in upcoming elections. 
Highlight that across the country, experienced politicians are joining Congress because they know that Congress will form the government in 2024. 

Press Conference, Hyderabad
Revanth Reddy should hold a press conference with all the leaders who recently joined the Congress party. 
Highlight that in coming days more senior leaders from BJP and BRS will join the Congress.
Highlight that KCR is scared of BJP and cannot stand up to BJP which is hurting the interest of Telangana. 
Highlight that similar to Karnataka, people of Telangana have also rejected BJP's politics of hate and division. 
Highlight that BJP and BRS both have accepted their defeat and have done a tacit understanding to fight INC. 
Highlight that the people of Telangana love Congress and in upcoming election they are going to vote en masse in favour of INC. 

Press Conference, Bhopal
Kamal Nath should hold a press conference in Bhopal with all the politicians who have joined the Congress party in the last two months. 
Highlight that in coming days more and more BJP leaders will join Congress party in Madhya Pradesh. 
Karnataka results have made it clear that the political wind in the country has changed, Congress is coming back. 
Congress will win all upcoming state elections and general elections in 2024. All experienced leaders across the country know that and they are joining the Congress party. 
There is a huge infighting in Madhya Pradesh BJP and the party is divided in three factions - Maharaj, Shivraj, and Naraaj. 
The Congress party welcomes all like minded people who want to work for the development of our state and our country. 
 
Party, Social Media
All INC leaders should post a welcome message to all the new joinees. 
Highlight that Hawa Badal Rahi Hai- 2024 Mei Congress Aa Rahi Hai 
INC handles should post the number of projected seats that INC will win in the upcoming State elections.
Highlight that after the recent joinings, Congress is becoming stronger and will win with huge margins.
The INC ecosystem should amplify that the political wind in the country is changing and seasoned leaders who know are coming and joining INC. 
 Party leader that defects to the BJP is treated as an outsider, meted step motherly treatment

Issue 2 | Job card-Aadhaar mismatch | A missing letter means no work for MGNREGA workers in Odisha
Brief | 61 lakh workers, many genuine beneficiaries, have been deleted in 2023 alone for reasons ranging from unwillingness to work to fake job cards
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
By destroying MGNREGA, one of the best schemes of UPA, BJP is killing the lifeline of crores of poor Indians. 
INC uplifted crores of Indians out of poverty through schemes like MGNREGA. The BJP is destroying MGNREGA in their hatred for INC. 

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to highlight that the BJP government finds ways to ensure that the poor people of the country do not get benefits of the schemes. 
Highlight that INC introduced MGNREGA to ensure job guarantee to the people in their villages and to combat distress migration. 
The BJP government is hell bent on destroying the set processes and making sure that the poor people do not get jobs.
Be it PM KISAN, Ujwala, PDS etc. the BJP government is ensuring that the maximum number of beneficiary names are removed on the basis of the minor errors and mistakes. 
Highlight that it is the BJP government who is responsible for removing the names of the beneficiaries. 
Announce that when INC comes to power MGNREGA 2.0 will be launched that will aim at increasing the pay of the workers, increase the number of days of employment and implementation of urban MGNREGA.

Editorial 
SG should write an editorial highlighting that INC brought the MGNREGA scheme to ensure that people had 100 days of guaranteed work. 
The BJP government instead of strengthening a scheme like MGNREGA is establishing processes that will ensure that poor people don't get jobs. 
Lakhs of names have been removed from the MGNREGA list, and lakhs of people have been unable to get work. 

Letter to PM 
PCC incharges should write a letter to the PM highlighting that lakhs of MGNREGA workers are out of job due to the policies of the government. 
Highlight that due to lack of access to internet and digital facilities lakhs of workers are unable to link their Aadhar cards to the MGNREGA card leading to deletion of their names from the MNREGA list.
 Why is the BJP government not finding a solution that does not require digital methods and helps people get the benefits of MGNREGA.
Attach list of MGNREGA workers whose names have been removed from the list. 

Party, On-Ground
RG should visit Odisha and meet with the MGNREGA workers whose names have been removed from the list.
Ask who is responsible for removing the names of the workers from the list?
DCC should organise protests across the country at the district headquarters against the names being removed from MGNREGA list. 
INC should establish a MNREGA Bachao taskforce to raise awareness about the tactics of the BJP government to end MGNREGA. 
Meet with the beneficiaries whose names were removed from the MGNREGA list. 
Raise awareness that the BJP government will find ways to cut the maximum number of beneficiaries.
INC should organise a registration drive across all district offices for MGNREGA workers whose names have been removed from the MGNREGA list.

Issue 3 | Podcaster/Youtuber interviews of several Cabinet Ministers are "Co-presented to you by ⁠@MyGovIndia/ Prachar Mantri
Hundi collections swell as Shakti free bus travel scheme increases women devotees in Karnataka
Brief | Cabinet Ministers interviews on BeerBiceps have been co-presented by the Government of India 
Women self-help groups are going in teams to temples, and buses to MM Hills, Dharmasthala and Subramanya in southern and coastal Karnataka are running full.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP and INC both have their priorities straight - INC spends money on women empowerment schemes like Shakti and BJP pays youtubers to boost their PR. 
PM Modi has turned his entire Cabinet into Prachar Mantris. 
2 Taka Sarkar, 200 Taka Prachar. 

Press Conference 
Supriya Shrinate should hold a presser asking the government how much taxpayers' money has been spent on advertisement against the compensation announced for Manipur 
BJP ministers had criticised the Karnataka government for wasting taxpayers' money on free bus service for women, but is now wasting money on YouTube interviews 
The Modi government does not know how to prioritise spending. It prefers to spend money on advertisement rather than welfare. 
Highlight that Modi's priority is his PR and not the issues of the people. Also, highlight the silence of PM Modi on all the current issues like e Poonch attack and Manipur. 
Highlight that all ministers in the Modi Cabinet are Prachar Mantris, they only focus on their PR and the issues of the people do not matter to them.