National Narrative Recommendations June 12th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Wrestlers' protest: pressure on us to compromise
Haryana Band on 14th June
Cops asked for photo and video evidence from wrestlers
Brief | The "minor" who was among the seven women wrestlers accusing the Wrestling Federation of India President and BJP MP Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh of sexual harassment, changed her statement under pressure, Olympian Sakshee Malikkh
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Amit Shah is putting pressure on the wrestlers and forcing them to withdraw the complaint.
Why is the PM and HM afraid of Brij Bhushan?
Beti Bachao ka nara ab Balatkari Bachao me badal gaya hai.

Press Conference
MK should hold a press conference to highlight that Amit Shah is giving protection to Brij Bhushan.
 Highlight that instead of giving protection to the wrestlers, the Home Minister and the BJP ecosystem is intimidating and humiliating the wrestlers. 
Demand resignation from Amit Shah on the grounds that he is incompetent and has failed to protect the women of the country while letting a sexual harassment accused run free holding rallies. 
Highlight that since January the wrestlers have been demanding the arrest of Brij Bhushan, it has been more than a month that they are out on the streets protesting and the PM of the country has remained silent. 

Party, On-Ground 
IYC,NSUI and Mahila Congress should do a gherao of the houses of Amit Shah, Manohar Lal Khattar, Smriti Irani, and Anurag Thakur. 

Party, Social Media
All leaders should post highlighting the incompetence of Amit Shah and demand his resignation for protecting Brij Bhushan 
Highlight Amit Shah is scared of Brij Bhushan

Issue 2 | Kuki members to boycott Centre's peace committee over Manipur CM Biren Singh's presence
Brief | A day after the Centre constituted a peace committee in Manipur, most Kuki representatives said they would boycott the panel as it included Chief Minister N. Biren Singh and his supporters. Pointing out that their consent was not taken for including them on the panel, they demanded that the Centre make the situation conducive for talks.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP has failed to ensure peace in Manipur. 
Press Conference
Okram Ibobi Singh and Keisham Meghachandra should hold a press conference to highlight that BJP is not concerned about the people of Manipur. 
Highlight why is CM Biren Singh being included in the peace committee?
Demand for neutral people to be part of the committee.

Issue 3 | Kuki-Zomis, who share ethnic bond with Mizos, seek shelter in Mizoram, state's resources are stretched; state BJP joins calls to give Kukis separate administration in Manipur
Brief | While the party's Manipur leaders stand divided along ethnic lines since the violence, its Mizoram unit last month passed a resolution supporting the Kuki-Zomi demand for a separate administration.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP is playing anti- Kuki politics. 

Visit to the Home Minister
A delegation of Mizoram Congress led by Lal Thanhawla and L. Ralte should visit the UHM and urge him to rehabilitate the displaced Kuki in the state.

Party, On-Ground 
Mizoram Youth Congress, NSUI and Seva Dal should set up relief camps to provide shelter for the displaced people who are coming to Mizoram for shelter. 
Reach-out to influencers like Irom Sharmila, Sarita Devi to highlight that BJP is using communal tension for its vote bank.
Demand for imposition of President's rule 

Party, Social Media 
All leaders should post that BJP created violence in Manipur, BJP uses divisive politics for votes. 
Highlight BJP takes side in favour of where they get votes.

Issue 4 | Modi government's special fund for railway safety spent on foot massagers, crockery, winter jackets: CAG report
Brief | A special fund created by the Narendra Modi government in 2017 to improve railway safety was misused to buy foot massagers, crockery, electrical appliances, furniture, winter jackets, computers and escalators, develop gardens, build toilets, pay salaries and bonuses and erect a flag.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Who is the real killer of Balasore?
When will the incompetent minister resign?

Press Conference 
Pawan Khera should hold a press conference to highlight that the BJP government misused the money for railways safety. 
The BJP government is least concerned about the safety of the poor people of the country. 
Ask the BJP government to reveal the real numbers. 
Highlight that the numbers are always much higher and BJP hides the real numbers to dial down the issues. 
They hid the numbers during COVID, they hid the number of deaths of migrant workers returning home and they are hiding the number of deaths in the Balasore train tragedy.

Issue 5 | Farmers' protest in Patiala
Brief | Demand to provide electricity connections to farmers, to stop charging commercial charges on electricity connections taken for ancillary businesses, simplify the change of name for electricity connections and others.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
AAP ke Bas ka Nahi Hai
The real face of the AAP government is anti- farmers. 

Press Conference 
Sukhpal Khaira should hold a press conference to highlight that this is the real face of the AAP.
AAP is anti-farmers and the real AAP-model is the one where the farmers suffer.

Issue 6 | Major Data Breach In Aarogya Setu, Claims Personal Info Of Millions Of Indians Leaked
Brief | There has been a major data breach of Modi Govt where personal details of all vaccinated Indians including their mobile nos., Aadhaar numbers, Passport numbers, Voter ID, Details of family members etc. have been leaked & are freely available.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Is there anything in this country that is safe other than rapists?
When will the incompetent Ashwini Vaishnaw resign?

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to highlight that Ashwini Vaishnaw dragged his feet on the Data Protection Bill. Today the personal information of Indians is out there to be misused by anyone. 
What is Ashwini Vaishnaw doing to protect the data of all Indians?
Highlight that Ashwini Vaishnaw is an incompetent minister.