National Narrative Recommendations June 7th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Haryana Police used water cannons and lathi charge on protesting farmers
Brief | Farmers blocked the Delhi-Amritsar National Highway in Kurukshetra as they protested against the Haryana government's decision to not buy sunflower seeds at the minimum support price (MSP). The police resorted to using water cannons and lathi-charge to disperse the agitating farmers.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Jab tak BJP satta me hai, Kisaan ka kalyan nhin ho sakta. 
Pichle 9 saal me ek bhi aisa din nahi gaya is desh me jab kisaan ko sadak par aakar apne haq ke liye BJP sarkar se ladai na ladni padi ho.

Press Conference, Deepender Hooda 
Highlight that the BJP government in Haryana has time and again used force to suppress the demands of farmers. 
Highlighting that Dushyant Chautala has failed the farmers of Haryana. The farmer's of the State have been protesting for years and still the demands are not fulfilled.
Since the BJP has come to power farmer's across the country are distressed, there have been constant protests against the anti-farmers policies of the BJP government.

Visit to Hospital 
Deepender Hooda should visit the hospitals where the farmers are being treated.

Party, On-Ground 
Haryana IYC and NSUI should mobilise people to join the protest in Kurukshetra.
IYC and NSUI should organise solidarity protests in all districts of Haryana against the brutal Lathi charge on farmers. 
IYC and NSUI should organise a candle light march in all cities across India against the brutal Lathi charge on farmers.

Issue 2 | Funds allocated, not utilised yet : Rs 468 crore sanctioned but NIL spent. Govt data shows why no Kavach on route of Odisha train accident.
Brief | The budget allocated to the indigenously developed technology in the South Eastern Railways (SER), under which Balasore falls, not a single penny has been spent in the last three years.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Trains are a ticket to livelihood for the poor and the BJP government has failed to provide protection to the poor of the country
The BJP government is busy ensuring infrastructure for the rich, while ignoring the poor population of the country.

Press Conference
Pawan Khera should hold a press conference to highlight that the Modi government is busy building trains for the rich and ignoring the railway facilities for the common people of the country. 
Highlight that the BJP government is escaping from taking responsibility for the Balasore tragedy. 
Modi's Kavach is to give protection to the rich and not the poor. 
Why are general train coaches not being increased? Why is there no proper maintenance of the tracks? Why has the Modi government not found a solution for overcrowding in general coaches? Why has the government not installed Kavach in trains for the poor? Does not the lives of the poor do not mean anything to the BJP?
Demand resignation of Ashwini Vaishnaw

Issue 3 | Centre invites protesting wrestlers for talks
Brief | Sports Minister Anurag Thakur said the government was "willing to have a discussion with the wrestlers on their issues."
Actionable | Narrative Stance
There have been multiple Charchas by the government but still there is no outcome. 
Brij Bhushan ko suraksha dene ke liye Amit Shah desh ki betiyon par dabaw daal rahe hain. 

Press Conference 
MK and PG should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight that the BJP has been just conducting meetings but the demands of the wrestlers are not being fulfilled.
After several rounds of talk, why has Brij Bhushan not been arrested? Is Brij Bhushan above all the laws of the country?
Instead of arresting Brij Bhushan the government just keeps calling the wrestlers for a round of talks.
Is this how we are going to treat our Olympians? 
We demand the government to hold public meetings with the wrestlers, when the government was using force in public then find resolution in public.

Reach out to Senior lawyers/retired judges 
Abhishek Manu Singhvi should reach out to Senior Advocate Dushyant Dave and retired Justice Madan Lokur asking them to speak about how the judiciary has been acting as a mute spectator in this issue. 
If this is how an accused under POCSO is able to rig the system in his favour then how will the women and children of this country feel safe?

Party, On-Ground
DPCC incharges should hold a candle march across all districts to demand for the arrest of Brij Bhushan. Highlight why is Brij Bhushan being given such undue protection. 
PCC should paste posters across major hotspots with the title "Arrest Brij Bhushan" along with his photo.