National Narrative Recommendations June 20th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | 23 MLAs from Manipur led by Speaker Thokchom Satyabrata Singh meet Union Finance minister
Brief | A delegation comprising ministers and MLAs from Manipur met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Delhi and demanded immediate withdrawal of the Suspension of Operation (SoO) agreement with three Kuki militant outfits.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Modi is shameless, people from Manipur are coming to meet him and he flew to the US. 
Manipur violence is a gross misgovernance, mismanagement on the part of BJP. 
BJP MLAs have also lost faith in Amit Shah, they are meeting the finance minister and defence minister. 
Amit Shah is an incompetent HM, 50 days and violence is still prevailing in Manipur. 

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference to highlight that Manipuri's are coming to meet PM Modi to Delhi and even then he is ignoring them, he has gone for his US tour while Manipur is burning. 
Why did the PM not meet the delegation of BJP MLAs? Why is PM Modi silent on the Manipur issue?
Who is Nirmala Sitharaman to meet the delegation of MLAs, when it is a matter of security? What is the solution that Niramla Sitharaman is providing?
PM Modi and Amit Shah have absolutely no regard for the security of the Manipuri people.
Highlight that Amit Shah is incompetent even BJP MLAs have lost faith in his capability of finding a peaceful resolution to the on-going violence in Manipur.
Why is the President not meeting the people and MLAs from Manipur? 

Party, On-Ground
INC should hold a protest at Bhopal railway station on 27th June 2023, where PM Modi is going to flag-off Vande Bharat trains.
Invite people from Manipur to be part of the protest.
Mobilise displaced people from Manipur on 25th June 2023, with placards "PM is not meeting us so we came to meet the PM." at Bhopal railway station. 
Outside the Bhopal railway station set-up kiosk "Manipur ki Baat" to highlight the silence of Modi on the Manipur crisis.
Manipuri people should buy the ticket of the Vande Bharat being inaugurated and travel with placards "Manipur is burning and the PM is silent."
Distribute/place pamphlets in trains across the country highlighting "Manipur is burning, why is the PM silent?"

Party, Social Media
RG should give access to his social media handles to people of Manipur to highlight the ground realities of Manipur. 
All INC leaders should post a comparative graphic with the caption "Historic Visit" with the image of Modi in the US and "Historic Neglect" with the images of violence in Manipur.
Hashtag trend: #ManipurBurningModiTouring

Issue 2 | Devotees move Kerala High Court alleging RSS members using temple premises to impart weapons training
Brief | A plea has been moved in the Kerala High Court alleging illegal encroachment of Sree Sarkara Devi Temple in Thiruvananthapuram by alleged members of RSS for conducting mass drills and weaponry training.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Jahan bacho ke haath mei kalam hona chahiye RSS hathiyar pakda rahi hai. 
"Aap tay Karo aapka bachha kahan hona chahiye- School me kitabon ke sath ya Shakha me hathiyaron ke sath?"
"Aap tay Karo aapko apne bachche ko Kya banana hai- Padh likhkar Doctor aur Engineer ya phir Shakha ka sadakchhap lafandar?" 

Press Byte 
K. Sudhakaran should give a statement to the media highlighting RSS is scaring women and children. 
Highlight that why do BJP leaders send their kids to school and not the RSS shakha?
Emphasis on how BJP wants to train the children in weaponry and violence while they are ensuring their kids get the best education. 
Ask to make Jay Shah the President of Kerala RSS wing, why do BJP leaders not send their kids to join the RSS?

Editorial 
Shashi Tharoor should write an op-ed highlighting that RSS scares people. 
Highlight that RSS is trying to make in-roads in Kerala by occupying temple spaces.
Emphasis on the cohesive community in Kerala and RSS attempts to distort peace in the State. 

Party, On-Ground
INC should start a movement "Parents Against RSS" to highlight that education is important for children and BJP leaders should send their children to RSS shakhas, why should common people send their children to RSS and sacrifice their futures.
INC should constitute a taskforce in all INC governed States to monitor the function of all extremists organisations. 

Party, Social Media
Demand for registration of RSS as a formal organisation and to maintain record of all its members.