National Narrative Recommendations July 1, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | PM Modi: Govt spending ₹6.5L crore annually on agriculture, farmers' welfare
Brief | Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted the government's commitment to the agriculture sector and farmers, stating that over Rs 6.5 lakh crore is spent annually for their welfare. Modi urged cooperatives to prioritize transparency, corruption-free governance, and the use of digital tools.
Actionable | Narrative stance 
It is ironic that the PM is talking about farmers' welfare when his regime will be remembered for BJP's anti-farmer activities 
PM prefers Adani's interests over farmers' interests 
 If BJP has brought so many farmer-friendly schemes, why have farmers been protesting against the BJP?

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference saying that Modi ji is concerned about farmers' welfare is laughable as the BJP is known for its anti-farmer policies 
'PM Modi promised to double farmers' income by 2022? What happened to the promise?' 
'If the BJP has rolled out so many farmer-friendly schemes, why have farmers been protesting against the BJP government?'
'Had the government invested in farmers' welfare, would the number of agrarian riots increase from 628 in 2014 to 2188 in 2020?'
'Modi ji seems to have forgotten that the black farm laws led to the deaths of 750 farmers. It lasted for 378 days and caused economic losses of over ₹60,000 crore.' 
'Have the demands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh, demanding complete loan waiver, minimum support price for their yield and assurance of permanent minimum income been fulfilled?' 
Has Modi ji forgotten the protest by 80,000 farmers belonging to 20 farmers' unions in 2018? 
'Under the BJP there has been case after case of fraud, Aadhaar Cards have been misused to create beneficiaries, new farming equipment lies gathering dust, and farmers are not even aware that money has been collected by private companies in their name.' 
While talking about farmers' welfare, the PM should also answer these questions about the Centre's flagship PM-Kisan Scheme: 
Why beneficiaries dropped from ₹11.84 crore to ₹3.87 crore since the first installment in Feb 2019 till the 11th instalment in May-June, 2022? 
Why tenant farmers (17% of all farmers), agriculture laborers and poor rural households are excluded from the scheme?
Why landless agricultural labourers (cultivators and labourers), which constitute around 55% of the agriculture workers, are not included in the scheme?
Have the issues recognised by the Standing Committee on Agriculture (2020) regarding the scheme, including incorrect bank accounts, been resolved?

Issue 2 | South Eastern Railway gets new general manager after horrific Balasore train accident
Brief | South Eastern Railway's General Manager Archana Joshi was removed from her post after the Balasore train accident. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved Anil Kumar Mishra to become the new General Manager of South Eastern Railway.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
When will the real culprits be held accountable? 
Till when will Ashwani Vaishnav hide behind scapegoats? Will he take responsibility for the train tragedy? If the General Manager can be held accountable, why is the Minister of Railways not? 
When will all victims' kins get compensation? How long will they have to wait for their loved ones' bodies? 
Press Conference 
Pawan Khera should hold a press conference demanding that Ashwini Vaishnaw step down from his post, and take responsibility for the tragedy. 
"It is deplorable that you don't hold yourself accountable as the Minister for Railways, despite the tragic consequences of your neglect of duty."
 "You have violated that trust that the Indian public reposed in you." 
"With the connectivity of more than 140 crore Indians at stake, the only honourable thing to do is to listen to your conscience instead of sloganeering, subverting facts and hiding behind others. It is time you took responsibility for the Balasore Train Tragedy."
Vaishnav systematically ignored all warnings about track and signal failures.
A CAG report tabled on December 2023 warned that there was inadequate safety staff, which would impact quality of maintenance of the track.
A report from the South Western Railways on February 9, 2023, underscored the need to revamp signalling infrastructure.
"With the 52 bodies that have not been identified, the process of identification should be expedited." 
Emphasise that this is not the only charge against Vaishnav, but it is the most gruesome because of the human tragedy involved. Will the minister be held responsible? 

Party, on Ground 
Balasore INC leader Navajyoti Patnaik should meet the families of the victim, visit hospitals where unidentified bodies are kept and speak to the loved ones of the victims. 
Cadre should stage a mass sit-in protest outside the Odisha assembly demanding Vaishnav's resignation. Hold placards asking: When will justice be done?