National Narrative Recommendations June 16th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | A mob torched Union Minister of State for External Affairs RK Ranjan Singh's residence at Kongba in Imphal on Thursday late night: Manipur Government
Brief | A mob torched Union Minister of State for External Affairs RK Ranjan Singh's residence at Kongba in Imphal. The attack came a day after the residence of Minister Nemcha Kipgen in Imphal was set ablaze on June 15.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Double engine government in Manipur is responsible for this crisis. 
For their electoral gains, BJP will throw the country into civil war. 
PM Modi, first finish your homework, solve the Manipur crisis and then go for your international tours.
People in Manipur are being killed, houses are being burnt, and the PM is busy packing for his US visit.
Russia Ukraine ka Yuddh rukwane ka dava karne wale, Apne Minister ka ghar jalne se nhin rok paye. 

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight that violence has been going on for over 40 days and the Prime Minister of the country has not said anything, rather he is busy touring the world. 
Highlight that Amit Shah and Himanta Biswa have visited Manipur, but the situation remains the same. Why is the BJP unwilling to resolve the issue?
Highlight that PM Modi has not addressed the issue of Manipur. Why is the PM silent? Hundreds of people have died and have been displaced, why does it not concern the PM?
Highlight that since Manipur has only 2 Lok Sabha seats, the double engine sarkar does not care about the state. 
Demand for the resignation of Amit Shah, the governor of Manipur and CM N. Biren Singh.
Demand for imposition of President's rule as the double engine BJP government has failed to find resolution. 
Demand that an all party-delegation should be allowed to visit Manipur to find resolution to stop the on-going violence. 
All INC CMs and PCCs should give a press byte on the issue highlighting the failure of BJP in handling the state
Highlight that Himanta Biswa and Ram Madhav are the ones who curated the violence in Manipur. 
All PCC Chiefs and state units should also raise this issue to highlight it nationwide.
Party, On-Ground
All INC spokespersons when participating in TV debates should wear a badge or have a background banner of Manipur burning. 
A delegation of all parties should visit Manipur to find resolution to stop the on-going violence.
NSUI and IYC should hold a protest outside the new parliament building along with students, athletes and displaced people from Manipur, demanding resolution or imposition of President's rule if the BJP can not resolve the issue. 
NSUI and IYC should put up posters of "Missing PM - Vishawaguru is busy travelling while Manipur is burning" to highlight that Modi was last seen in Manipur during polls.
IYC and NSUI should paste posters outside Manipur Bhawan in Delhi stating "Manipur is Burning" along with images.
IYC and NSUI should stage protests outside Amit Shah's house demanding his resignation and highlight the HMs failure to find resolution to on-going violence in Manipur.
INC cadre along with students and residents from Manipur in Delhi should hold a protest outside the Supreme Court to highlight the need for the CJI to step in and take suo-motu cognisance of the issue
DPCC should hold a protest outside of media houses in film city, Noida. 
Question: why is Manipur not a prime time news? 
Why is it that when Amit Shah visits Manipur it is news and after that there is no coverage?
Start a distress helpline for the students of Manipur living outside of Manipur. 

Collection Drive for Relief Material 
IYC and NSUI should start a drive to collect and send relief aid like food, water, clothes,medicines, hygiene products, etc. to the relief camps with inadequate facilities. 

Relief Camps
State PCC incharges of the neighbouring States should set-up shelter camps near the border for those who are leaving Manipur. 

Candle Light Solidarity March
All PCCs should organise candle light solidarity marches along with people of Manipuri and North Eastern origin to demand for a quick resolution in Manipur.

Editorial on the current politics of BJP in northeast 
Sonia Gandhi should write an editorial on the current political realities of Northeastern States to be published in national and local newspapers. 
Highlighting that BJP has brought divisive politics to the Northeast and created conflict within the Northeastern States. 
BJP is pitting tribes against each other. 
Party, Social Media
All INC leaders should post asking PM Modi " Do you know where Manipur is?"
Highlight the double engine sarkar has failed to resolve the issue in Manipur.

Issue 2 | Congress calls for NIA probe against Himanta and Ram Madhav
Brief | The Congress demanded that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) investigate the revelations made by the chief of the United Kuki Liberation Front (UKLF), S.S. Haokip, that his organisation and some other militant organisations supported and helped the Bharatiya Janata Party win elections in Manipur.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
The BJP is hand in glove with militant outfits for electoral gains. 

Press Conference
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to highlight that BJP made deals with militant groups to win elections. 
The on-going violence in Manipur is a creation of BJP and its leaders like Himanta Biswa and Ram Madhav

Issue 3 | Karnataka Makes it mandatory to read the preamble in schools and colleges
Brief | The Karnataka cabinet on Thursday decided to make it mandatory for all schools and colleges, whether government, aided or private, to read the Preamble of the Constitution daily. The Karnataka government has also made it compulsory to have a portrait of the Preamble of the Constitution put up at all government and semi-government offices.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
INC will protect the Constitution and the rights of every Indian.

Party, On-Ground
KPCC should hold a Preamble reading at Freedom Park Bangalore for a Guinness Book of World Records award for the largest group to read the Preamble.
All Karnataka leaders should organise one session of collective Preamble reading in their constituencies simultaneously 
(Guinness book world record: The largest audience at a book reading for a single author is 114,704 and was achieved by Prem Rawat (USA), in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India, on 2 April 2023.)

Party, Online
All INC leaders should post a video of them reading the preamble and tag other leaders to participate in the trend. 
Selfie with Preamble Campaign where people post selfies with a framed Preamble hanging on a wall in their homes to highlight that we respect and uphold the Constitution.

Issue 4 | Nearly 29000 affected because of flood in Assam and Flash Floods in Sikkim
Brief | According to the daily flood report of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), more than 28,800 people are hit due to floods in Dhemaji, Dibrugarh and Lakhimpur districts
Flash flood hit North Sikkim district and submerged the National Highway 10 at Pegong. Areas such as Lachen and Lachung in North Sikkim have been cut off from the rest of the state
Actionable | Party, On-Ground
APCC Chief Ripun Borah and Gourav Gogoi should be camped in the flood-affected districts
Seva Dal, IYC and INC cadre should organise relief camps in the affected areas
Relief kits comprising food, medicines, drinking water should be distributed at relief camps.
A disaster relief wing called Nehru Aid or Indira Aid under Seva Dal should be created that is responsible to be first responders to all disasters, visits any disaster affected area and help with relief work.
MK should call local Congress leaders in Assam to extend support. 
Direct DCCs and PCCs to convert all INC offices in neighbouring areas of flood affected areas into shelter homes for the needy. 
Coordinate with doctors and constitute a response team for relief work. 

Party, Online
MK and RG give a call to all INC workers to be prepared to provide assistance to affected people.
Senior leaders should amplify the relief work being done by Gujarat INC workers for Biparjoy affected people

Issue 5 | Weeks before Odisha accident, Railway Board flagged 'shortcuts' by signalling staff
Brief | The Railway Board's letter, written 60 days before the Balasore train accident, highlighted five incidents of the current year involving unsafe train operations due to shortcut methods used by the signal and telecommunication department. The incidents included derailments, train diversions, and incorrect signal clearance. The letter, written by Roop Narayan Sunkar, went viral on social media, raising questions about the need for a CBI inquiry into the Balasore accident.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
After every crisis, BJP always finds scapegoats while real culprits go unpunished. 

Press Byte
Jairam Ramesh should give a statement to the press to highlight that BJP is busy covering up its failure and making small officers scapegoat. 
Ashwini Vaishnav & Dharmendra Pradhan trying to use this as a PR stunt to fight elections from Odisha
Why is Ashwini Vaishnav hiding and not taking responsibility for his failure?

Party, On-Ground
All INC CMs and PCC incharges should visit the families of victims of the Balasore train tragedy from their State. 
Announce compensation and jobs to next of kin for the families.

Party, Social Media
Social media trends "Where is Ashwini Vaishnav hiding?" Why is he not taking responsibility? Instead of hiding behind and persecuting low-ranking officials, the Minister should take responsibility
Ashwini Vaishnav and Dharmendra Pradhan are both using the tragedy as a PR stunt and planning to fight elections from Odisha. Why don't they fight from Balasore itself?