National Narrative Recommendations June 27th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | "No Work No Pay" circular issued by the Government of Manipur
Brief | A circular issued by GAD Secretary Michael Achom said: "In pursuance of the meeting chaired by the Chief Minister on June 12 and decision taken at para 5-(12) of the proceedings, all employees drawing their salaries from General Administration Department, Manipur Secretariat are informed that no work, no pay may be invoked to all those employees who do not attend their official duty without authorised leave."
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP is trying to portray normalcy in Manipur by forcing government employees to risk their lives and return to work. 
Narendra Modi Manipur ke liye Dhritrashtra bane huye. 
Biren Singh ko Manipur ka CM banaye rakhna waisa hi hai Jaisa Billi se dudh ki rakhwali karwana. 

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference highlighting the failure of the BJP government to stop the on-going violence in Manipur. 
 Amit Shah claims that President rule is not the solution, then he should tell what is the solution?
Till when will the BJP let violence prevail in Manipur? How many more people have to die for Modi to break his silence?
If Biren Singh is not responsible then who is Amit Shah or Modi? Who is accountable for the death of hundreds of Mnaipuris?
Highlight while Manipur was burning and PM Modi was busy tweeting 9 years of peace in the North-east.

Party, On ground 
RG should meet members of the NorthEast Student's Association (NESA) and assure them that the INC is with them, and will provide them and their families back home all possible support. 
Okram Ibobi Singh should start a Manipur Jodo Yatra in Manipur, mobilise people from both communities and request the people to maintain peace. 
Demand the resignation of CM Biren Singh
The leaders should say that just to create the illusion of normalcy, the government is forcing government employees to work without taking adequate safety measures 

Editorial 
SG should write an editorial on the BJP government's mishandling of the Manipur issue and the silence of PM Modi. 

Party, social media 
All INC' s social media should post that "Manipur is burning and BJP is busy in election campaigns".
All social media handles should post that while BJP was trumpeting about nine years of peace, Manipur was burning.
All INC leaders should post that " BJP is trying to showcase normalcy by asking people to join back office, while the violence is on-going in Manipur".

Issue 2 | BJP against tribals and States opposing the Uniform Civil Code (UCC)
Brief | A meeting of more than 30 tribal organizations in Jharkhand has asked the Law Commission to withdraw the Unified Civil Code move. The meeting held under the leadership of the Adivasi Sangh Samithi (ASS) stated that the Uniform Civil Code will destroy tribal identity and encroach on the rights of tribals. If the Uniform Civil Code comes, many laws giving special rights to the tribals will be abolished.
Actionable | Narrative stance 
BJP's neglect for safeguarding the indigenous tribal communities is evident in their handling of Manipur violence, with Modi's silence on the issue speaking volumes.

Press Conference
Nand Kumar Sai should hold a press conference highlighting that BJP is anti-tribal, all the policies that the BJP government introduces are against the tribal culture. 
Highlight how tribals have been demanding for land rights which have not been given to them. 
Should also highlight on how pressure groups are rejecting the UCC in Nagaland, Meghalaya and Mizoram
Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma in Jan 2023 showed apprehensions more clearly, saying that his National People's Party - a BJP ally - cannot back any uniform code as it would affect the culture of the state. 

Party, On-Ground 
INC should organise a Adivasi Maha Sammelan, invite all Adivasi organisations to discuss the anti-Adivasi stance of BJP and their efforts to dilute the adivasi culture. 
Senior INC leaders should address political unrest in tribal areas caused by BJP and present a better alternative for the welfare of tribal communities.

Party, Social Media 
INC ecosystem should propagate a draft of the UCC that highlights:
Hindus currently enjoy tax exemptions and tax breaks if they have a HUF. Once UCC is introduced HUF will be scrapped.
The Hindu Succession Act, 1956 has provisions for coparcenary rights in which heirs have equal rights in ancestral property. Which will be diluted once UCC is introduced.
Social Media post on "The focus on UCC by the BJP government a deliberate distraction from pressing concerns like unemployment and rising prices".

Issue 3 | Two goods trains collide at Onda railway station in Bengal's Bankura, and several trains cancelled
Brief | Two goods trains collided at Ondagram railway station in West Bengal's Bankura district in the wee hours of Sunday, leading to the disruption of train services on the Kharagpur-Bankura-Adra line of the South Eastern Railway (SER) for nearly four hours. Railways officials said that no one was injured in the incident.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Modi government is destroying the Indian Railways, so that he can blame the government employees and sell it to Modi's crony capitalist friends. 
Jo Air India ke sath kiya, wahi Modi Sarkar Indian Railways ke sath karna chahti hai. 
When Indian Railways will be privatised, at least 40% employees will be fired - more than 5 Lakh people will lose their jobs. 

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to highlight that the BJP is running the Indian railways to the ground on purpose. 
Highlight that BJP talks about modernising the railways and bringing in new safety measures. This is just another Jumla and far from the truth. 
According to the NCRB data from 2020, more than 13,000 train accidents were reported that year. On average, 32 lives were lost daily.
Out of a total of 1,127 derailments recorded during the period from 2017 to 2021, a staggering 289 derailments (26 percent) were directly linked to inadequate track renewal efforts.
Only 2% of the entire 68,103 KMs railway network has been covered with anti-collision technology.
The BJP government is intentionally under utilising the railway funds 
As per CAG report the allotment of funds for Track Renewal works witnessed a decline from ₹9,607.65 crore in 2018-19 to ₹7,417 crore in 2019-20
 The allocated funds for track renewal purposes were not fully utilised. 
Highlight that this is the usual tactic by the Modi government. First, they destroy a profit making government company and then sell it to Modi's crony capitalist friends. 
Highlight how they sold AIR India and now they are after Indian Railways. 
Highlight that if the Indian Railway is privatised, it will put the employment of 11 Lakh people at risk.