National Narrative Recommendations June 14th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | 9 people have been killed and 10 others injured in fresh violence in Khamenlok area, Imphal East. Postmortem procedure underway: Shivkanta Singh, SP Imphal East
Brief | In a fresh attack by suspected militants, at least nine people were killed and 10 injured in a village in the Khamenlok area of Manipur
Actionable | Narrative Stance
It has been over a month. Why has the violence not stopped?Why has the BJP government failed to resolve the issue?
While Manipur is burning PM Modi is busy touring the world. 
PM Modi, first finish your homework, solve the Manipur crisis and then go for your international tours.

Press Byte
MK should give a press statement highlighting that the BJP has failed to resolve the Manipur issue.
It has been more than 10 days after Amit Shah's visit and there is fresh violence everyday, what did Amit Shah achieve? 
The ongoing violence is a National Security issue because Manipur is a border state. 

Party, On-Ground 
All INC spokespersons when participating in TV debates should wear a badge or have a background banner of Manipur burning. 
A delegation of all parties should visit Manipur to find resolution to stop the on-going violence.
NSUI and IYC should hold a protest outside the new parliament building along with students, athletes and displaced people from Manipur, demanding resolution or imposition of President's rule if the BJP can not resolve the issue. 
NSUI and IYC should put up posters of "Missing PM- Vishawaguru is busy travelling while Manipur is burning" to highlight that Modi was last seen in Manipur during polls.
DPCC should hold a protest outside of media houses in film city, Noida. 
Question: why is Manipur not a prime time news? 
Why is it that when Amit Shah visits Manipur it is news and after that there is no coverage?
Start a distress helpline for the students of Manipur living outside of Manipur. 
Party, Social Media
All leaders should tweet PM Modi "Pehle Desh, Phir Videsh" highlighting the on-going violence in Manipur and PM Modi's silence on the issue.

Issue 2 | CoWIN data leak | No CERT-in update yet; experts demand transparency
Brief | The Indian Computer Emergency Team (CERT-in) has not put out any update on its assessment of the apparent breach of personal information of people who received vaccinations, registered on the CoWIN platform.
Actionable | Narrative stance 
India has been hacked, but the Modi government does not want to take responsibility 
Ashwini Vaishnaw is an incompetent and irresponsible Minister. 
Will the BJP govt hold the right people accountable for the privacy leak? 
Who is Ashwini Vaishnaw selling the data to? 

Press conference, Shashi Tharoor
Demand that Ashwini Vaishnaw take responsibility for the CoWin data leak. 
He should say that the BJP has neither taken responsibility for the Balasore Train Tragedy or the CoWin data leak
He should ask: 'Where is Ashwani Vaishnav hiding?' 
Highlight that after the Balasore Train Tragedy, the government went after low-hanging fruit like the station master, instead of sacking the minister. 
Chidambaram should reiterate that the BJP had trusted an incompetent person, like Ashwini Vaishnaw, who is a mere 'yes man' with crucial ministries, which has resulted in the Balasore Train Tragedy, and the CoWin data leak. 

Party, Legal Action 
INC Legal Cell, in coordination with NGOs such as the Internet Freedom Foundation should file a PIL to ensure a legal regime is in place to protect data in the hands of the government

Issue 3 | PNB Nirav Modi scam: No steps taken by bank in case involving public money, says Bombay High Court.
Brief | The Bombay HC, while hearing pleas by PNB and ED seeking claims over attached properties of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi worth over ₹500 crore, said that huge amounts are involved in the matter, but no steps are being taken by the bank.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
The Modi government is exerting pressure on bank officials and preventing them from taking action against Nirav Modi, because of his connection to the PM 
The Modi government allowed Nirav Modi to flee the country 
Both N Modis are in cahoots and have a singular mission to loot the country 

Social media 
RG should tweet the headline: 'Why no action on diamantaire Nirav Modi's loan frauds? Bombay HC questions PNB' and says: "Because his name is Modi."