National Narrative Recommendations June 17th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | 'Priest accuses Char Dham admin body of gold scam worth Rs 125 crore
Brief | Santosh Trivedi, the vice-president of Char Dham Tirth Purohit Samaj (a body of Char Dham pilgrimage priests), alleged that the Badrinath Kedarnath Temple Committee (BKTC) had misappropriated gold worth Rs 125 crore.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP ke raaj mei bhagwan bhi surakshit nahi hai, bhagwan ke ghar mei bhi chori ho rahi hai
Bhajpa ka bhrashtachar, Bhagwan bhi huye lachar 
Jo Bhagwan ko Dhokha de sakte hain, vo insan ko kyun chhodenge. 
After Adipurush, this is yet another instance of the BJP insulting Hindus

Party, On-Ground 
Kamal Nath should hold a fast outside Mahakaleshwar temple Ujjain, to highlight that under BJP government even temples are not safe.
Highlight that under the BJP government there have been multiple scams in temples - Kedarnath temple scam, Ram Mandir land scam, and Mahakal Corridor scam. 
Question: those who do scams in temples in the name of God, can they be real Hindus?
Question: those who do politics in the name of Hinduism, what have they done for Hindus? 
Highlight that religion is just a means for BJP to do scams and win elections. 
PCC should paste posters across hotspots in Delhi, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh "Bhajpa ke raaj mein Bhagwan ka ghar bhi surakshit nahi hai."

Party, Social Media 
All INC leaders should post "Bhajpa ka Hinduism nakli hai" "Bhajpa Bhagwan Se Bhi Chori Karti Hai"

Issue 2 | Nehru Memorial Museum and Library renamed sans Nehru, triggers political war of words
Brief | The Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML) Society, an autonomous body under the Government of India, announced last week that the institution would be renamed as the 'Prime Ministers Museum and Library Society
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Modi knows that he can never match Nehru, therefore he wants to erase his memory. 
Congress sarkar ne sattar saal me jo banaya, Modi ne pichhle 9 saalon me usko becha hai ya uska naam badla hai. 

Press Conference
MK should highlight the list of Congress Initiatives that BJP has just renamed to establish "BJP ko Naam badalne ke alawa kuch nahi aata"
Exhibit the existing names of schemes and institutions initiated by INC that BJP can rename to highlight that " BJP can rename schemes and institutions but can not wipe out Nehru's contribution to India's development" 

Party, On-Ground
IYC and NSUI should paste posters of the front page of telegram "Nehru is Big" across hotspots in Delhi, to highlight the contribution of Nehru. 
Link: 

Party, Social Media 
All INC leaders should post creative built around Nehru by Telegraph in 2020 " Nehru is Big, Accept that Mr. Half Truth" 
"Maunasan Position" creative post for International Yoga Day. 
INC should mobilise filmmakers to produce a documentary series on the achievements of INC- "Bemisaal 75 Saal"

Issue 3 | Manipur Violence | Mobs clash with security forces in Imphal; attempts at torching houses of BJP leaders
Brief | On June 16, automatic gunfire was reported from Kwakta in Bishnupur district of Manipur and Kangvai in Churachandpur district through the night.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Manipur has been burning for more than 45 days, yet Modi has not acknowledged it. 
100 se jyada deaths aur 50000 se jyada beghar, par Modi ko do shabd kahne tak ka samay nahi mila. 

Prayer Sabha at Rajghat
RG should hold a Prayer Sabha with Manipuri students at Rajghat, Delhi. 
Invite students of all communities from the north- east to participate in the prayer meet. 

Pray for Manipur Campaign
State PCCs should mobilise Congress members to hold prayer meetings for Peace in Manipur across all religious places ( Temple, Church, Mosque, Gurudwara) across the country. 

Manipur Relief Fund
PG should announce "Manipur Relief Fund" for the displaced communities and students living away from their families. 

Party, Social Media 
IYC and NSUI should collect testimonials from Manipuri students highlighting that BJP has ignored the on-going violence in Manipur. 
INC leaders should post creative of Modi doing Yoga day terming it as "Maunasan" on Yoga Day to attack him on his silence on the issues going on in Manipur (image inspired by Telegraph post)