National Narrative Recommendations June 3rd, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Balasore train accident
Brief | At least 261 passengers were feared dead and around 650 injured in a major rail accident involving two express trains in Balasore district of Odisha on June 2 evening.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Ashwini Vaishnaw is busy doing his PR - he must resign.
The government's priority is only to cater to the rich who travel in fancy Vande Bharat trains, while they can't look after basic security in regular trains, where the poor travel in crammed bogies and suffer such tragedies.
Jitna samay aur paisa ye Sarkar prachar me Kharch karti hai agar uska aadha bhi railway ke maintenance pe kharch karti toh ye durghatana nhin hoti jisme saikadon logon Ki Jaan chali gayi. 
Pahle ke rajneta durghatna ko apni naitik zimmedari mante huye isteefa dete the aur aaj ke bhajpayi neta durghatna ke baad apna photo-op kar rahe hain. 
This is not an act of God, this is an act of fraud. 

Visit 
PG should visit Balasore to meet the injured and the families of deceased people. 

Letter by SG
SG should write a letter to the PM giving the following policy suggestions on the relief and rehabilitation:
Utilise the trains used during COVID to treat patients with minor injuries and those who do not require hospitalisation 
Highlight that 10 lakh for the family of deceased is not enough, the compensation amount should be increased to Rs. 50 lakh

Joint Statement by former Railway Ministers (MK, Lalu Yadav, Nitish Kumar, Mamata Banerjee)
Highlighting that before Modi, the priority of the Railway Ministry was to help the poor. 
The Modi government cannot handle the serious responsibility of running the largest railway network in the world, it can only do PR. 
Modi discontinued the railway budget, shows that railways for the poor is not his priority. It was an opportunity for the country to see the finances allotted for their travel.

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference in Delhi to pay condolence to the deceased. 
Highlight that this is a systemic failure and those responsible for this tragedy should be held accountable. 
Demand immediate resignation of Ashwini Vaishnaw. 
Announce Balasore Relief Fund and urge all INC CMs, MPs and MLAs to donate their one month salary.
Highlight that the government is busy spending money on vanity projects while there is no maintenance being done for trains or tracks that are essential for common people.
Highlight that more than 1.4 lakh rail safety staff posts are vacant in the country. 
How will the common people travel in trains if there is no safety? What is the assurance that the PM can give to the common people of the country?
Highlight the photos of crowded trains and ask the government why has the BJP government failed to provide better railway infrastructure to the poor. 

Actionables for all INC CMs
Call Naveen Patnaik to highlight that they are ready to provide any kind of support that he requires.
Highlight that there is a team of specialised doctors and emergency medical kits ready that can be sent to Odisha
Announce compensation to the families of the deceased from their respective States from the CM Relief Fund.
Visit the families of those who died from their State in the accident and give their condolences.

Party, On-Ground
IYC, NSUI and Seva Dal should be present in hospitals and relief camps to help families identify and locate their family members.
All INC leaders and cadres of Odisha should donate blood. 
INC cadres should be present at the Howrah railway station to provide assistance to the families that require help. 

Party, Social Media
All party leaders should post the incompetence of the BJP government and demand the resignation of the Railway Minister.

Issue 2 | Day after Amit Shah's visit to Manipur, militants engage in fire exchange with security forces
Brief | Gun battles between security forces and insurgents were reported on Friday in various parts of Manipur. These incidents occurred just a day after Amit Shah concluded his visit to the ethnically troubled northeastern state, where he had appealed for peace and the restoration of normalcy.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Amit Shah went to Manipur as a tourist, his vacation is over but the state is still burning. 
Those who divide people and instil hate for votes can not unite people. 
Amit Shah is incapable and useless Home Minister. He is responsible for all the crimes and violence prevalent in the country. 
 If he can not handle Manipur, how can we expect him to maintain the law & order in the entire country? 

MK Press Conference with AICC Fact Finding Committee for Manipur
Highlight that while Amit Shah was in Manipur there was on-going violence and fresh violence erupted after his visit.
It took 1 month for Amit Shah to visit the violence affected areas, his visit was just a political formality. 
Amit Shah has failed to bring resolution between the two communities. 
Amit Shah is incapable of bringing peace in Manipur as they are the creators of violence, they have no willingness to resolve the issue.
Amit Shah visited the relief camps of both the communities and the highest officials from the 'rival' communities were absent. How will he find a resolution when he can not take the officials of both communities to the relief camps of each other?
The visit to Manipur was a vacation for him. There has been no change there is on-going violence in Manipur. 
The people in the relief camp lack water, food and medicine, Amit Shah promised adequate supply but people still are struggling to get basic necessities in the camps.