National Narrative Recommendations May 30th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Ahilyabai Holkar Diwas will be celebrated on 31st May
Brief | Maharani Ahilyabai Holkar birth anniversary will be celebrated tomorrow.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP removed the statue of Rajmata Ahilyabai Holkar at Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi for a birthday celebration. 
The BJP leaders should apologise to people of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh for disrespecting the memory of Rajmata Ahilyabai Holkar. 

Visits
BalaSaheb Thorat , Ashok Chavan and Bunty Patil should visit Chondi village of Ahmednagar district - the birthplace of Rajmata Ahilyabai Holkar to pay tribute to her. 
Kamal Nath , Ajay Singh and Digvijay Singh should visit Maheshwar in Khargone district to pay tribute . 

Press Conference 
Kamal Nath should do a press conference to highlight Ahilyabai Holkar's lifetime achievements. 
Attack BJP for removing Ahilya Bai Holkar's statue from the Maharashtra Sadan for a birth anniversary celebration. 
Announce Ahilyabai Siksha Abhiyan under which INC leaders will take a pledge to fund the education of 5 girls. 
BalaSaheb Thorat will announce the same in Maharashtra.

Issue 2 | A 21-year-old Indian-origin student was shot dead in Philadelphia
Brief | The deceased student was identified as Jude Chacko. He was shot by unidentified assailants while he was returning from work.
Actionable | RG Meeting with Family
RG should have a meeting/video call with the family of the deceased student to pay condolence, while he is visiting the US. 

Letter to Congressman 
Sam Pitroda should write a letter to the Congressman of Philadelphia highlighting the rising gun violence in the US and the threat to the lives of hundreds of Indian students. 
Demand for immediate arrest of the culprits.

Issue 3 | Delhi: A case of sexual exploitation of a woman has come to light in UP Bhawan.
Brief | Delhi Police has registered an FIR after a woman alleged that she was sexually abused by a political leader inside UP Bhawan. The cops are learned to have sealed one room on the premises.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Bhajpa Se Beti Bachao kyunki Bhajpa Balatkariyon ko Bachane me lagi hai'
BJP shields the rapists while the women of the country suffer

Press Conference 
Supriya Shrinate and Alka Lamba should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight the deplorable state of women safety in the country under the BJP government. 
BJP is least concerned about women safety or ensuring justice to women, the wrestlers have been protesting against BJP leader Brij Bhushan and no action has been taken. 
Women being sexually assaulted in government buildings and the BJP government keeps silent like always. 
BJP hamesha balatakariyo ke sath khadi hoti hai , either rapists belong to BJP or BJP stands with rapists. 

Party, On-Ground
Mahila Congress should organise a protest outside the UP Bhawan highlighting that women of the country are unsafe under the BJP government.
Delhi PCC should paste posters across Delhi with image of Smriti Irani with a tape on her mouth and the slogan Daro Mat Smriti. 
Delhi PCC should advertise 'Bhajpa se Beti Bachao' on one hoarding at a prominent hotspot in Delhi. 

Letter Addressed to the Women of the Nation 
Netta D'Souza should write a letter to all the women of the country highlighting the rising crimes against women. 
Highlight that the BJP is busy protecting rapists.
Urge the victim of the UP Bhawan sexual assault case to not succumb to pressure and give her assurance that the Congress party stands with her.

Party, Social Media
PG should tweet highlighting the concerning issue of women safety first the inaction and ignorance to women wrestlers, then murder of a young girl in Delhi and now the case of sexual assault in UP Bhawan.

Issue 4 | Protesting wrestlers will immerse their medals in the Ganga, an indefinite hunger strike will follow at India Gate
Brief | India's top wrestlers, who have been detained by Delhi Police and removed from their Jantar Mantar protest site, said that they have plans to throw their medals into the river Ganges while also sitting on a hunger strike 'till death' at the India Gate.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
'Bhajpa Se Beti Bachao kyunki Bhajpa Balatkariyon ko Bachane me lagi hai'.
When the athletes win medals for the country, BJP leaders run to meet them, for months they have been demanding justice and no BJP leader is listening to them.
BJP has resorted to using police force against the daughters of the country, while giving full protection to Brij Bhushan.

Protest Site, PG
PG should meet the women wrestlers highlighting the Congress party stands with them in their fight till they get justice. 

Party, On-Ground
Mahila Congress leaders should join the hunger strike in solidarity with the protesting wrestlers. 
PCC incharges of Delhi, Haryana and Punjab should mobilise people and ask them to join the protesting wrestlers at India Gate.
Across all states INC should hold a one-day hunger strike in solidarity with the wrestlers.
DPCC incharges should hold a mashaal march across all districts demanding immediate resolution to the demands of the wrestlers.
INC should start a medal wapsi campaign urging all athletes to return their medals, and throw medals outside the house of Anurag Thakur.

Issue 5 | Manipur riots: what further reactive measures can INC pick
Brief | Posters, banners and messages come up in Manipur on Monday welcoming Union Home Minister Amit Shah on his four-day visit.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Manipur is burning , but BJP is only concerned about the perception management. 

Letter to Party Presidents
MK should write a letter to the presidents of all political parties including BJP , urging them to visit Manipur with the Congress delegation. 

Letter to Amit Shah
MK should write a letter to Amit Shah informing that a joint delegation of all political parties will be coming to Manipur. 

Visit to Manipur 
MK should lead a joint party delegation to Manipur . 
Should escalate the demand for Presidential rule raised by Riots and Risks analysis group and Indigenous Tribes Leaders forum. 

Press Byte 
MK should give a press byte slamming BJP for being busy in perception management while Manipur is burning. 
The crisis has been going on for the past one month and finally Amit Shah got time to visit. 
Highlight how Amit Shah was welcomed.