National Narrative Recommendations June 1st, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Dalit Basti demolished in Banaras for G20 and increased access to Namo Ghat
Brief | The Qila Kohna Basti, situated in Rajghat settlement, near Namo Ghat of Banaras. The majority of those displaced by the Banaras administration are Dalits and Muslims, who currently lack alternative residential options.
Actionable | Narrative Stance:
BJP is a Manuwadi party, they are ashamed of Dalits and the poor. 
BJP does not believe in improving the living conditions of Dalits and the poor. They just want to hide them and pretend that there are no problems. 
BJP Ko Daliton ke Vote chahiye, par is desh me Dalit nahin chahiye. 

Press Conference, MK 
Highlight that BJP has done large scale demolitions in the name of beautification without a plan for rehabilitation.
Highlighting that as a part of its beautification plan BJP has demolished a Dalit basti. 
Highlight the reason behind the beautification drives - BJP is ashamed of Dalit and poor people and they do not want them to be seen. 
Highlight that the BJP does not see Dalit and poor as worthy of being seen by the world. They hide them behind walls or demolish their houses when foreign dignitaries visit the country. 
BJP is a manuwadi party that wants the vote of the Dalits but will not give the Dalit people the right to be seen.
Highlight that 450 families were displaced without any notice and BJP has not provided any rehabilitation. 
Attack the BJP for only wanting Dalit votes but not wanting to actually work for their development. 

Visit to the Families 
UPCC President Sh. Brijlal Khabri should visit the families at the demolition site. 
Should talk to the families highlighting BJP's vision does not include poor and Dalits.
 
Party , On-ground 
All INC frontals should hold a protest in front of the MP office of Narendra Modi in Varanasi highlighting that BJP is ashamed of the Dalits/ 
SEVA dal volunteers should set-up relief camps for the displaced families . 

Party, Social Media
PG should tweet highlighting that BJP is ashamed of the Dalits and whenever foreign dignitaries visit the country they hide them by walls or by demolishing their house.

Issue 2 | Assam CM's wife Riniki Bhuyan's company Pride east entertainment acquires rights to digital platform Time8, a massively popular news platform in Assam
Brief | Riniki Bhuyan Sarma holds majority stake in Pride East Entertainments Private Limited- the company that broadcasts News Live, a 24x7 Assamese news television channel. The family stakeholders include Riniki Bhuyan Sharma, and the Assam CM's parents.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Assam ki Sarkar, Riniki Sarkar. 
To stop people of Assam from knowing the truth about BJP's corruption, Riniki Sarkar is buying all the news channels in the state. 

Press Conference 
Bhupen Kumar Borah should hold a press conference to highlight that 6 major media outlets in Assam are now owned by Riniki Bhuyan Sharma. 
Highlight that Riniki is running the government instead of Himanta. 
Highlight that Riniki Bhuyan Sarma is busy making money. 

Social Media , Ecosystem 
All leaders should post that Riniki is in control of the Assam government, and Himanta Biswa's family is making money. 
Highlight the spike in the income of Riniki and Himanta's family.
Hashtag: #RinikiSarkar
A series on Rich lives of BJP wives should be started highlighting the assets created by Riniki Bhuyan in Assam.

Issue 3 | 2 year old girl was abducted and raped by Sadhus in Mahendragarh, Haryana
Brief | A 2 year old girl belonging to nomadic tribe living in Mahendragarh district of Haryana was abducted and raped by two Sadhus. Local police have registered the FIR and have arrested one of the accused.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao walon ke raj me kahin bhi betiyaan surakshit nahi hai.

Visit to the Family 
Selja Kumari should visit the family of the victim and condemn the heinous act.
Should announce financial compensation and assure the family that justice will be provided. 
Promise legal assistance to the family to fight the case.

Issue 4 | Setback for Himachal: Union Govt Slashes Loan Limit by ₹5500 Crores
Brief | In a significant blow to the Himachal Pradesh government, already grappling with a severe financial crisis, the central government has dealt a staggering blow by reducing the state's loan limit by a whopping ₹5500 crores. Adding to the distress, the matching grant received for the annual deposit of ₹1780 crores in National Pension System (NPS) accounts has been abruptly discontinued.
Actionable | Narrative Stance .
BJP Himachal ke logon se apni haar ka badla lene ke liye Pradesh ke vikas me rukawat daal rhi hai. 
Bhajpa na to OPS lagu kar rhi hai aur na hi Congress ko karne de rhi hai. 

Press Conference 
Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu should hold a press conference to highlight that the BJP government in Delhi is creating hindrance in the development of Himachal Pradesh.
BJP is not implementing OPS and by reducing the loan limit of Himachal Pradesh they are trying to stop INC from giving OPS.

Party, On-Ground
All INC frontals should hold a protest march demanding restoration of Himachal Pradesh borrowing limit. 
Highlight why the limit of BJP States like MP is not being reduced, whereas the Himachal's loan limit is being reduced.

Issue 5 | Assam: ASTC buses will not operate from June 1, employees to hold state-wide protest over lay-off row
Brief | Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) buses will seize to ply on the road in a state-wide protest. State government decided to fire 771 workers allegedly obtaining employment through unfair means.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
At the time when unemployment is at its peak in the country, BJP is taking away jobs. 
Himanta Biswa Sarma is acting like a dictator, he fired people with two days notice. 

Party, On-Ground 
AYC should join the protesting ASTC staff members and highlight that the BJP government is taking away jobs from the people of Assam.
Bhupen Borah and Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha should visit the leaders of the ASTC protest and give solidarity. 
Highlight that recently Amit Shah and HBS organised an event to distribute appointment letters and soon after that they are taking away jobs from the people. 
Promise legal assistance to the victims of this policy.