National Narrative Recommendations June 2nd, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Govt to sell partial stake in Coal India
Brief | The government proposed to sell up to 3% stake in Coal India Ltd through the offer for sale route from June 1. The Offer for Sale (OFS) will be open for retail and non-retail investors on June 1 and 2. The proposal is to offload 9.24 crore shares amounting to a stake of 1.5% in the coal producer.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Desh Nhin Bikane Dunga Wale Saheb Ne Desh Nhin Bachne Dunga, Sab Bech Dunga Ki Kasam Kha Li Hai. 
Jab Sarkari Company Nahi Rahegi Toh Sarkari Naukri Bhi Nahi Rahegi, 
Jab Sarkari Naukri Nahi Rahegi Toh Reservation Bhi Nahi Rahega,
Yahi Hai Modi Ji ka Masterstroke. 

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to highlight that BJP is selling all the PSUs of the country. 
Highlight that by privatising PSUs, BJP is diluting reservation and taking away jobs from SC,ST and OBCs.

Party, On- ground
IYC should organise a protest outside Coal India office with 'For Sale' banners/ placards. 
Paste posters/ paint 'For Sale' on the walls of Coal India offices/ buildings. 

Party, Social Media 
All leaders should post on social media highlighting that Modi is a salesman and not a statesman, he is selling the whole country to his friends. 
Video of BJP auctioning the different PSUs in the country with the title "Great Indian Sale".

Issue 2 | Dalit man thrashed for wearing nice clothes, sunglasses, FIR lodged against seven
Brief | A 21-year old Dalit man and his family members were allegedly assaulted by the upper caste Rajput community members on Tuesday for purportedly wearing sunglasses and good clothes. An FIR was lodged by the Gadh police station at Banaskantha, naming seven accused.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Dalit- Virodhi Bhajpa Sarkar Me Daliton Ke Upar Atyachar Badhta Hi Ja Rha hai. 

Press Conference
Jignesh Mevani and Anant Patel should hold a press conference in Gujarat, to highlight Dalits are being assaulted by upper caste for even wearing good clothes and sunglasses. 
Highlight in all the cases of assault against the Dalit community in the last 9 years of the BJP government. 
Highlight that since BJP has come to power cases of lynching and hate crimes against Dalits have exponentially increased. 
Demand for the arrest of the culprit.

Protest 
Jignesh Mevani should mobilise the Dalit community leaders to lead a protest against assault on Dalits for wearing good clothes. 
Jignesh Mevani should organise a pledge taking mega event in Unnao, to pledge that no Dalit will tolerate any kind of discrimination and assault.
DPCC should take out a march with people wearing suits and sunglasses. 

Party, On-Ground
DPCC should paste posters across all districts highlighting the demand for arrest. 
INC should reach out to fashion designers who are sympathetic to the cause of Dalit rights and organise a fashion show with Dalit models to celebrate Dalit culture.

Party, Social Media
All INC Dalit leaders should start a protest on social media by posting pictures wearing suits and sunglasses, with the message of no tolerance to assault against Dalits.

Issue 3 | BJP MP Maneka Gandhi says she is confident that protesting wrestlers will get justice
Brief | Lok Sabha MP Maneka Gandhi while speaking at a event in Sri nagar said that ' I am sure that wrestlers will get justice'
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP Balatkariyon Ko Surakhsa Deti Hai Aur Desh Ki Betiyon Ko Detain Karwati Hai 
BJP ke Bade Neta ab Bhi chup hain. Unhe Janta Ke Samne Aakar Saaf Karna Chahiye Ki Vo Desh Ke Liye Medal Jeetane Wali Betiyon Ke Sath Hain Ya Unka Shoshan Karne Wale BrijBhushan Ke Sath. 

Press Conference 
 Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to highlight that even a BJP MP is coming out in support of wrestlers , however Narendra Modi is still silent. 
Ask why is Narendra Modi silent? Till when he will ignore the insult of Indian daughters. 

Party , Social Media 
All INC leaders should post posters tagging BJP leaders to choose a side - either you support the wrestlers or stand with a Molester. 
Party workers and IYC cadre should post tweets with a #SavePOSCO. 

Party , On-ground 
The IYC cadre and party workers should collaborate with Child rights and women rights organisations to amplify the demand for - Save POSCO. 
The cadre should paste posters outside BJP senior leaders asking to take a side - either with wrestlers or Brij Bhushan. 
IYC cadre should organise a movie screening - Phir se ek Banda ( Manoj Bajpayee)

Issue 4 | Modi govt has spent Rs. 71 lakh every day for nine years on ads in print media.
Brief | In its nine years in power, the Narendra Modi government has spent more than Rs 2,300 crore, or over Rs 71 lakh each day, on advertisements in print media.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Jo Saheb Ye Dawa Kar Rhe The Ki Unko Akhbaar Ki Surkhiyon Ne Nhin Banaya Hai, Pichhale 9 Saal Me Unhone Har Roj 71 Lakh Rupaye Akhbaar Walon Ko Dekar Hi Apni Jhoothi Image Banayi Hai. 
BJP is using taxpayers money to spread its propaganda.
The BJP is using money to control the media and hide the truth from the people.

Party, On-Ground 
DPCCs should distribute pamphlets across districts highlighting that BJP is funnelling tax payers money to Karyakartas pockets.

Party, Social Media 
All leaders should post highlighting that all the money that BJP is spending on advertising could have been used to sponsor PSUs and government jobs in the country.