National Narrative Recommendations May 31st, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Amit Shah's Visit To Manipur Border Town
Brief | Imposition of President's Rule in Manipur and creation of a separate administration for tribals were among the key demands from tribal leaders who met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Churachandpur district
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
N Biren Singh allowed Manipur to burn for a month to settle his political scores. 
BJP and peace can not co-exist, if we want peace in Manipur, we have to remove BJP. 

Letter to Amit Shah, Joint Opposition 
Joint letter from opposition parties to Amit Shah to highlight that N. Biren Singh's inefficiency in controlling the violence in Manipur 
Highlight that it's been a month of violence in Manipur yet there has been no significant improvement in the situation. 
Highlight that it is the CM's responsibility to protect all the citizens , but he has failed to discharge his duties as the CM of Manipur . He has actively fomented violence between two communities . 
Demand that Biren Singh should be held accountable and should be dismissed. 
Reiterate the demand for Presidential rule. 

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference to highlight that INC stands with the people of Manipur and we want peace and justice.
Demand an impartial probe and reiterate the demand for Presidential rule.
Highlight that more than 80 people have died and what is the CM doing? 
Highlight that 10 Lakhs compensation announced is not enough, demand 50 lakhs for the victims. 

Party, Social Media 
All INC leaders and workers should tweet highlighting peace and BJP can not co-exist , wherever it is BJP we can not have peace.

Issue 2 | Wrestlers Protest against Brij Bhushan
Brief | Union minister Smriti Irani said the issue of the wrestlers is under investigation and intervening at this stage will go against the women complainants.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP se beti bachao 
BJP balatkarion ko surakhsa deti hai aur desh ki betiyon ko detain karwati hai 

Press Conference 
PG should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight that Brij Bhushan is being protected by BJP, there is no concern that is exhibited towards the women wrestlers. 
BJP leaders are coming out to target the victims.
Why is Brij Bhushan still the chief of WFI after multiple serious allegations of sexual charges?
Why has Amit Shah's Delhi police not arrested Brij Bhushan? The Delhi police was quick to detain the protestors, while Brij Bhushan roams around freely?
Why is the BJP protecting Brij Bhushan, why has the BJP not suspended him from the party? 
BJP is always concerned about the international image, today the International Olympic Committee is showing concern on the wrestler's protest. BJP should consider that India is being seen in a bad light around the world due to BJPs inaction.
In the press conference play the videos of "Bauhat hua nari par waar, abki baar modi sarkar" BJP advertisement and highlight how women in the country are unsafe even after 9 years of BJP government. 

Press Byte
Captain Ajay Singh Yadav, Udai Bhan, Neeraj Sharma, and Selja Kumari should give a statement highlighting leaders in the BJP who have been accused of sexual harassment and have been given protection from the BJP.
Highlighting that under the BJP government women security has lapsed, BJP gave the nara "Bauhat hua nari par waar, abki baar modi sarkar" but aaj desh ki nari par bhjpa waar kar rahi hai.
Asurakshit hai bharat ki nari, bhjpa bachaye balatkari.
Call out Smirti Irani for commenting that Babita Phogat will not share stage with exploited others and especially her family members. 
Highlight that Babita Phogat supported the wrestlers and met them in January. 
Demand for the resignation of Brij Bhushan.
Demand that Brij Bhushan's BJP membership should be suspended.

Party, On-Ground
On the 5th Day of the ultimatum given by the wrestlers, PCC incharges should start a Relay Fast in support of the protesting wrestlers. Appeal to all protestors to wear black clothes.
DPCC incharges should hold a mashaal march across all districts everyday starting from 1st June 2023 demanding immediate resolution to the demands of the wrestlers.
INC Mahila Congress should hold a silent protest across all States in solidarity with the wrestlers. 

Letter to sportspersons 
Vijender Singh should write a letter to all sportspersons appealing them to come out in solidarity with the protesting wrestlers and demand justice for the wrestlers.

Party, Social Media
All leaders should post a video of BJPs slogan "Bahut hua nari par waar, abki baar modi sarkar" BJP advertisement with the message that under the BJP women of the country are unsafe.
Hashtag Trend: #BJPSeBetiBacho #BalatkariJantaParty