National Narrative Recommendations June 16th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | 5 years of president/ governor's rule in J&K
Brief | After the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, the BJP leaders assured the restoration of statehood to J&K and holding elections for the J&K Assembly.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Denying statehood to Jammu & Kashmir is a crime. The Modi government must restore full statehood immediately.
Kashmir must be governed by people of Kashmir and not by some outsider who doesn't care about the people of Kashmir. 

Press Conference
MK should hold a press conference highlighting that it has been 5 years since democracy was murdered in J&K
Highlight that despite promises by BJP leaders, J&K continues to be under the Centre's thumb
Highlight that Centre has formulated a consultation for Ladakh' statement but why nothing on J&K. 
Highlight the growing uncertainty amongst ethnic groups in India be it in J&K or Manipur due to the constant undermining of democratic institutions by the BJP
Highlight falling tourism and development promises by the BJP by linking it to the growing unrest in the region
Demand statehood for J&K and immediate elections 
Demand land rights for indigenous people of J&K, and Ladakh

Letter to President
MK should write a letter to the President that there has been a direct attack at the democratic process of conducting elections in J&K
Highlight that there have been no elections in J&K for 5 years, despite the promises made J&K is still under Governor's rule. 
Demand for conducting immediate elections and restoration of Statehood. 

Party, On-Ground
Vikar Rasool Wani should lead an on-ground silent protest at Lal Chowk
Invite Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti to join the protest as well
One-day fast and Silent Protest at Lal Chowk by leaders covering their mouth with black cloth
Demand restoration of statehood and immediate elections 
Simultaneous one-day fast and silent protest at Rajghat in New Delhi by top leaders of the Congress

Issue 2 | Deteriorating Law & Order situation in Punjab under the AAP government (Nihang Sikh hacked to death in public in Punjab's Ludhiana)
Brief | A Nihang Sikh was hacked to death in public in Punjab's Ludhiana late on Thursday, the police said. The incident took place in the Gill Colony area on Daba Road
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Bhagwat Mann is just a puppet in the hands of Arvind Kejriwal who cannot handle law & order in a sensitive state like Punjab
Punjab cannot be governed from Delhi.

Press Conference
Navjot Singh Sidhu should hold a press conference to highlight that the AAP government in Punjab is a failure. APP has failed to deliver on all the election promises. 
The deteriorating law and order condition in Punjab is a testament to the failure of the AAP government to govern Punjab.
Highlighting that AAP is inefficient and incompetent to govern the State of Punjab. 
Highlighting that since AAP has come to power there has been a rise of violence in Punjab, there is a rampant problem of law and order. 
Kejriwal is controlling Bhagwat Mann and he has no say in what happens in Punjab. 
Bhagwat Mann has no power and he is an incompetent CM. 
Emphasis that AAP came with the Delhi model of governance which is a failure, Punjab can not be ruled from Delhi. 

Party, On-Ground
Punjab PCC should place hoarding at the entrance of Chandigarh border with the message "Honk if you think Mann is a puppet of Kejriwal".

Issue 3 | Salaries of 15,000 govt employees delayed in Himachal as debt mounts to Rs 76,000 cr + all issues in INC states related to rice, electricity
Brief | The salaries of as many as 15,000 government employees, including 11,000 Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) staff have been delayed by a fortnight as the state reels from a debt amounting to nearly Rs 76,000 crore. The employees also include those working in the forest corporation, medical colleges and the irrigation department
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP engages in vendetta politics in states where it can't form a government
BJP is taking revenge from the people of Himachal for voting them out of power

Press Byte 
Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu should give a statement highlighting that the news of delayed salaries to the government employees is false.
Highlight that the government will take appropriate actions against those who are spreading the fake news. 
Highlight that the BJP has no moral authority to question INC government because it is the previous BJP government's mismanagement that emptied the coffers of the state. 
Highlight that the BJP government in the Center is ensuring that non-BJP governed States are unable to function. 
Highlighting that bills are stopped by the governors who are puppets of the BJP, the Central government does not release funds to the States, or reduce the borrowing limit of the States. The BJP government tries all the tactics to stop States governments from implementing pro-people initiatives.
Centre does Grant Terrorism to throttle development efforts by State governments.

Meeting with the President
All INC CMs along with CMs of other opposition-ruled states should visit the President and submit a memorandum highlighting instances of Centre preventing development work in their states. 

Party, Social Media 
Social media trend on step-motherly treatment by Modi to non-BJP ruled states. 
All leaders of the Congress should tag Modi on tweets and posts that use a map of India and say that India comprises all states and not just BJP ruled states.
INC CMs or PCC Chiefs can target one top BJP leader from every state: eg. Ashok Gehlot targeting Shekhawat, Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu targeting JP Nadda