National Narrative Recommendations May 30th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah said that false cases against Kannada fighters, farmers-labour-Dalit movements, literature and writers will be withdrawn
Brief | False cases against Kannada fighters, farmers-labour-Dalit movements, literature and writers will be withdrawn. Education sector will not be allowed to be adulterated in the name of the new education policy
Actionable | Narrative Stance
The BJP government suppressed Dalit, Adivasi, farmers, and all progressive voices by registering false cases against them. 
The Congress government is the government of people and it respects the people's right to express their views. 

Party, Social Media 
Siddaramaiah should post a tweet highlighting that Congress believes in the freedom of expression and does not curb the rights of the people. 
Highlighting that BJP tried to suppress the voices of Dalit, Adivasi, minority, and progressive voices.
Highlight that all the false cases filed by the BJP to censor the freedom of expression will be withdrawn.
All INC leaders should post a tweet welcoming INC Karnataka government's steps to protect the freedom of expression in the country. 
Draw contrast with INC governed States and BJP governed State on suppression of opposing views.
Hashtag: #RightToExpress #JantaKiSarkar

Issue 2 | Only six religion options make it to next Census form
Brief | Despite demands from several communities to be counted as a separate religion, the next Census will only count Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Sikh and Jain as distinct religion options.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
The BJP does not respect the identity of our tribal people. 
By not giving Sarna code in the new caste census form, BJP is denying millions of tribals across the country their real identity. 

Letter to Narendra Modi
Nepal Mahata, Geeta Koda, Saptagiri Sankar Ulaka and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury should write a letter to PM Modi demanding inclusion of Sarna faith as a separate religion. 
Highlight that it is a long standing demand of the Adivasi community and by excluding the Sarna faith the BJP has disrespected the Adivasis.

Party, On-Ground 
INC Santhal leaders will take out marches to raise the demand for creation of a Santhal Court.

Issue 3 | Delhi Teen Stabbed 22 Times
Brief | A 16 year old girl was stabbed and bothered with a stone slab in a brutal attack by a 20 year old.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Delhi is becoming unsafe for our daughters and sisters under the incompetent HM Amit Shah. 
There is a sharp rise in crimes against women in the last 8 years. 
'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' is just an empty slogan for Modi's PR. The BJP government is least bothered about the safety of our daughters. 

Press Conference 
 Alka Lamba and Supriya Shrinathe should do a press conference to highlight that women are not safe in the capital of the country. 
Highlighting that Amit Shah has failed to improve the security in the country's capital, there is a rise of crime and women are unsafe in the State.
Highlight the incompetence of Delhi Police , how the accused was roaming in the capital without getting caught. 
Slam BJP MP Hans raj Hans over his statement of youth usually gets distracted with the overflow of emotions . 
Highlight the gravity and sensitivity of the issue. 

Candle Light March , Delhi 
IYC and NSUI cadre should organise a candle light march at India Gate demanding justice for the victim. 

Party , Social Media 
All INC leaders should tweet expressing shame and demand for immediate justice.

Issue 4 | Nirmala Sitharaman accused RG of signing an agreement with Chinese people.
Brief | "He should be ashamed of taunting the Indian government on the China issue when he is briefed by the Chinese Ambassador. However, he doesn't listen to what our PM says on the issue. Whenever he (PM) speaks in Parliament on this issue, Congress leaders either walk out or shout at their loudest voices to disrupt his speech."
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP has an ineffective foreign policy and to distract the people from the real issues BJP is relying on cheap politics. 

Press Conference
Supriya Shrinate should hold a press conference highlighting the hypocrisy of the BJP. 
Highlight that Narendra Modi has met the Chinese President Xi Jinping, still China has attacked India, entered Indian territory and broken ceasefire multiple times. 
Why has the BJP government taken a soft stance on the Chinese? 
Highlight that BJP leaders have time and again met the Chinese and China still poses a national security threat to India. There is a deep-rooted connection between China and BJP. 
Question all the visits of RSS and BJP leaders to China and what is the relationship and agreement that BJP and China have with each other?
Rajnath Singh visited China in 2007.
In 2009 a BJP-RSS delegation was on a five-day visit to Beijing and Shanghai on an invitation of the Communist Party of China (CPC)
Nitin Gadkari, accompanied by a seven-member party delegation, were on a 5-day -day tour of Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou in 2011.
Senior BJP general secretaries Ram Madhav and Bhupendra Yadav, along with the party's foreign affairs cell head Vijay Chauthaiwale, played host to Li Xi in 2019, member of the Communist Party of China (CPC).
Chinese companies have donated to the PM CARES Fund

Party, Social Media 
All INC leaders should post the question of BJP and China relationship on their social media accounts.