National Narrative Recommendations June 21st, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | No US Congress member came to receive PM Modi at the airport during his State visit.
Brief | On 20th June Prime Minister Narendra Modi left for his first official state visit to the United States, and on arrival in New York, he was received by India's Ambassador to the U.S., Taranjit Singh Sandhu and India's Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Ruchira Kamboj.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Not a single US congress member came to receive PM Modi on his arrival in the USA, this is an insult to India. 

Press Conference
Jai Ram Ramesh should conduct a Press Conference to highlight how not a single US Congress Member welcomed Modi at the airport on his arrival for the first ever 'state visit' to USA and that this is sheer insult to India 
Question whether Modi's Vishwaguru image really exists on an international level?

Party, Social Media
INC leaders should tweet on the insult to India, since only Indian representatives from the USA went to receive Modi.

Issue 2 | Shah to launch BJP's 'mega yatras' in MP from Balaghat district | Veerangana Rani Durgavati Gaurav Yatra | on June 22
Brief | BJP in Madhya Pradesh has planned to launch five mega yatras in different parts on different intervals ahead of the assembly polls in the state. The yatras will be kick-started in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah on June 22. 
The first part of yatra, to be flagged off by Amit Shah, will start on June 22 in Maoist-affected Balaghat district, similar yatras will be started from four other places the same day.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Manipur me log mar rahe hain, aur Home Minster saheb Madhya Pradesh me prachar kar rahe hain. 
Wherever Amit Shah goes violence follows - is he the Home Minister or Hate Minister? 
MP does not want any kind of violence, MP rejects the politics of division of BJP.

Party, On-Ground
INC cadre should place black flags and posters across the route of the yatra with the message "Wherever Amit Shah goes there is rise in violence and we don't want violence in MP"
INC should invite a group of displaced women from Manipur to hold a protest on the route of Amit Shah's yatra with placards "Hamara Kya?"(In Manipuri with Hindi translation) Why is HM distancing himself from Manipur? Is it because Manipur only has 2 seats?
INC should advertise hoardings with the message "Manipur is Burning". 
IYC and NSUI should ensure wall painting of the outline of Amit Shah's face, captioned "Sinister Home Minister". 
INC should paint the road that the yatra will pass through " MP rejects Shah, Go back Shah".

Party, Social Media
INC should start a social media trend "Say PM" highlighting the silence of Modi on Manipur violence, instigate him to speak up. 
INC should post that Manipur is burning and the Home Minister is busy campaigning for yet another election
Emphasis that after Amit Shah's visit to Manipur violence increased
Amit Shah should be ashamed of himself.
Demand resignation of Amit Shah as he is an incompetent Home Minister

Issue 3 | What is ailing new IITs? Infrastructure delays, staff shortages, fewer projects, says CAG
Brief | About a decade since new IITs were announced, they have inadequate infrastructure, faculty shortages, they are financially dependent, and fail to attract students who clear entrance examinations for engineering courses, as per a Comptroller and Auditor General December 2021 performance audit report, which was made public in 2023.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP is competent only to launch projects, but incompetent in the execution of these projects
Bhajpa ka Khokhala Vikas, Bharat Ki Janta ke Sath Vishwasghat. 
Bhajpa se ek kaam dhang se nahi hota. 

Press Conference
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference highlighting all the failed projects under the Modi led BJP government.
The BJPs Smart City project remains incomplete. 
BJP announced several educational institutions but these institutions have incomplete infrastructure. Also highlight that BJP has just renamed or integrated programs in existing institutions. 
Highlight that BJPs educational institutions lack enabling infrastructure for the students, there is lack of accessibility, teachers, support staff, and infrastructure
 Highlight that projects have remained dysfunctional under the BJP government and there have only been announcements.
All BJP does is spend money on advertising rather than investing money in infrastructural development.

Party, On-Ground
IYC and NSUI should highlight the difference in the quality of education across educational institutes, and that most students do not get access to the kind of education in premium Indian Institutes.
IYC and NSUI can hold protests across University campuses highlighting how educational infrastructures have been delayed, and money is being spent on international tours, advertising, hence neglect of their future by the BJP government. 

Party, Social Media
All INC leaders should post creative on the infrastructural delays, project delays under the BJP government in the last 9 years to highlight announcement vs execution

Issue 4 | At 30.13 Lakh, the Number of Persons in Union Govt Civilian Jobs the Lowest Since 2010
Brief | According to the latest 'Annual Report on Pay & Allowances' by the finance ministry, the number of sanctioned posts is 39. 77 lakh, which is the lowest in the last three years. The number of vacant posts is over 9.64 lakh.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Yuvaon ko berozgar rakh kar Bhajpa yuva Josh ka nara deti hai. 
BJP Sarkar yuvaon ko josh nahi Berojgari ka zahar de rhi hai. 

Press Conference 
Supriya Shrinate should hold a press to highlight that the BJP is peddling the fake narrative of Yuva Josh, while the youth of the country remain unemployed and struggling to make a future for themselves. 
Highlight that the BJP government is calling this generation 'Amrit Peedhi'. The youth of the country needs jobs not the branding. 
Ask PM Modi, How will there be 'Josh' among our youths while you are keeping them unemployed
The BJP government is busy in cutting down the number of government jobs in the country, instead of creating employment opportunities.
Since BJP has come they have been lowering the number of posts in government jobs.
Highlight across all departments of the government there is decrease in sanctioned posts and occupied posts. 
Highlight that there are 3 lakh vacancies in the railways alone and the BJP government has failed to fulfil these posts. By employing the staff in railways the government could have avoided the Balasore train tragedy and several other train accidents. But the BJP is the least concerned about the people of the country.
Instead of strengthening the PSUs, BJP is helping Adani's business expansion plan.
Demand immediate fulfilment of all vacant posts in all departments. 

Party, On-Ground
IYC should protest outside all Ministries and departments of the government to demand for fulfilment of all job vacancies.
Posters and banners with the number of vacancies for each Ministry and department with the question "What have you done to fulfil these vacancies?"

Party, Social Media
Everyday all INC leaders and party handles should ask the question "What has the BJP done to fulfil government vacancies" highlighting the number of vacant posts in government departments. 
The post will be captioned "why are the country's youth still unemployed?

Issue 5 | Several Coaches Of Guwahati-Jammu Lohit Express Detach Near Bengal-Bihar Border
Brief | A major train accident was averted after two coaches of Lohit Express, travelling from Assam's Guwahati to Jammu Tawi, were detached from the engine in West Bengal's North Dinajpur.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Modi Ji agar Vande Bharat se fursat mile toh asali Bharat ki trains ki taraf dhyan de. 
Aisa hi hai Modi ji Ka vikas, engine aage bhaga ja rha hai, dibbe pichhe hi reh gye. 

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference to highlight the failure of the BJP government to develop the railways in the country.
Highlight that the BJP boasts that it has done a lot for the railways but in reality the BJP has done nothing. 
There is no money spent on the maintenance of railways or to hire railway support and safety staff, instead all the money is being spent on Modi's advertisement and inaugural events of Vande Bharat
Question the BJP whether there has been timely checking of trains safety equipment in the last 9 years? Whether the necessary measures have been taken to make sure that the large masses of our country travelling in trains are safe?

Party, On-Ground
All INC frontals in Odisha should visit the Balasore train tragedy site and conduct a Shradhanjali sabha for the victims. 
IYC and NSUI should do Rail Ruko protests across the country to highlight that there are 3 lakh job vacancies in the railways and BJP is toying with the safety of people.

Party, Social Media
All INC leaders should post Vande Bharat v/s Real Bharat images of Vande Bharat train and the images of general coaches in general trains. Highlight that the BJP government is spending money for the rich while the poor travel in unsafe trains.