National Narrative Recommendations June 9th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Girls used to get married, deliver child before 17: Gujarat HC on abortion plea
Brief | The Gujarat High Court asserted that it was once normal for girls to marry at a young age and deliver a child before they turned 17. The remarks came while the court was hearing a minor rape survivor's abortion plea, with the judge also asking the petitioner to 'read the Manusmriti'.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
In BJP's India women are disrespected everywhere. 
There is no justice for women in the real Gujarat Model. 

Press Conference 
Geniben Thakor, Jignesh Mevani and Anant Patel should hold a press conference to highlight the Gujarat High Court judges statement is bizarre and is further an assault on the victim.
This is the real Gujarat Model- where women are not respected. 
Highlight that the country is governed by the Constitution and not the Manusmriti. 
BJP is destroying the entire system. This is the country that they are trying to build where women are not respected.

Issue 2 | Rajyavardhan Rathore, Parvesh Sahib Singh and Poonam Mahajan wrote a letter to Rahul Gandhi questioning his 'mohabbat ki dukan'.
Brief | Accusing the Congress leader of insulting the country in the United States where Rahul Gandhi has been touring, the three BJP leaders cited political instances of 'Congress's hatred'.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Jo log nafrat phailate hain unko mohabbat se dikkat hai 
India needs Rahul Gandhi's Mohabbat ki Dukaan not BJP's Nafrat ka Bazzar. 

Party, On-Ground
DPCC should set-up a "Mohabbat Ki Dukaan Kiosk" outside the house of Rajyavardhan Rathore, Parvesh Sahib Singh and Poonam Mahajan and distribute "Mohabbat ka Sharbat".
All leaders should send roses to BJP leaders houses with the message "While you spew hate, we will spread love"

Issue 3 | One big packet containing 5.260 kg heroin has been recovered near Rai village, Amritsar district: BSF Punjab Frontier
Brief | The Border Security Force (BSF) recovered a Pakistani drone along the International Border near Rai village in the Amritsar sector in Punjab
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP is incapable of controlling the drug problem in the country. 

Press Byte
Raja Warring should give a statement highlighting that drugs are spreading across the country, the BJP government has failed to stop the penetration of drugs in the country
BJP government is incompetent, they have no plan to stop drugs being smuggled from across the border.

Issue 4 | Filed false complaint against WFI chief Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh due to anger over match: minor wrestler's father
Brief | With the, the minor wrestler's father who filed a police complaint against Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) chief and BJP MP, said he deliberately filed "a false case against him due to anger".
He was threatened by people whose names he couldn't reveal and "his family is living in intense fear".
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Amit Shah is brokering a deal to provide protection to Brij Bhushan. 
Amit Shah is putting pressure on the wrestlers and forcing them to withdraw the complaint. 

Press Conference 
All CMs of INC governed States should hold a joint press conference in Delhi to highlight that the BJP may use all the forces to suppress the voices of the wrestlers, INC stands by them. 
Highlight that a year ago the wrestlers brought the issue to the PM but they were not heard. The wrestlers have been protesting for a month and demanding Brij Bhushans arrest for 6 months. 
False promises were made and BJP keeps asking time for investigation, all the tactics are being used to protect a rapist. 
Amit Shah meets the wrestlers and forces them to withdraw the cases.
Why is the BJP giving protection to Brij Bhushan?
Why is there a need for dialogue? There are FIRs but Brij Bhushan roams around freely making statements against the wrestlers, while Amit Shah is trying to broker a deal to save him. 
If this is how BJP treats wrestlers, how will they treat common people? 
BJP is instilling fear in the hearts of the wrestlers and their families. They don't want to withdraw the cases Amit Shah's threats are making them take this action.

Letter to PM 
MK should write a letter to PM asking that these wrestlers met him a year ago and brought attention to Brij Bhjusahns behaviour. 
Why did Modi not take any action?
Why is there silence by the PM on the matter?
When the wrestlers win medals for the country, the PM is taking photos with them, but today when they are being threatened by the BJP, why is the PM silent?
What happened to the slogan "Beti Bachao", " PM Modi aaj desh ki beti bol rahi hai beti bachao but aap chup hain aur kuch nahi kar rahe hain."

Issue 5 | Nainital may become next Joshimath, says Uttarakhand HC
Brief | The Uttarakhand high court, taking suo moto cognisance of the daily traffic congestion in Nainital during peak tourist season, warned that "if the issue is not resolved promptly, the situation may worsen."
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Soti huyi Bhajpa Sarkar ko bachaye, Nainital to Joshimath Banne se Bachaye. 

Press Conference 
Bhuwan Chandra Kapri and Yashpal Arya should hold a press conference in Nainital to highlight the lack of a sustainable model of development. 
Demand for a plan of sustainable development. 

Party, On-Ground
DPCC should put posters across Nainital highlighting 'Kahin Der Na Ho Jaye' 'Nainital Ko Agla Joshimath Na banne de'