National Narrative Recommendations June 15th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Maharashtra Politics: Controversy over Eknath Shinde Shiv Sena's advertisement
Brief | A day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Eknath Shinde came under attack from its alliance partner BJP over a full-page newspaper advertisement featuring Shinde but not his deputy Devendra Fadnavis, the Shinde Sena, in a damage-control measure, released another advertisement on Wednesday featuring both leaders.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP is losing the 2024 election.
All allies of BJP are with BJP because of ED and CBI, and not because of choice. 
BJP is not the lone wolf that they portray, BJP never fights elections alone. 

Note: In all rallies and press conference INC leaders should highlight the infighting between leaders in BJP
Press Byte 
 and Supriya Shrinate should give a statement to the press highlighting that BJP is losing the election in 2024. 
Highlight the on-going infighting in BJP in Maharashtra and state that the BJP is unable to resolve its own differences. How will they resolve the issues of the people of the country?

MPCC, On-Ground
Posters across Maharashtra highlighting "Pannas Khokhe, sab kuch not okay?" with photos of Eknath Shinde and Devendra Fadnavis 

Party, On-Social Media 
All INC Maharashtra leaders should post a graphic highlighting " Pannas Khoke, not Okay?" with photos of Eknath Shinde and Devendra Fadnavis.

Issue 2 | Law Commission seeks fresh suggestions on Uniform Civil Code
Brief | The 22nd Law Commission of India on Wednesday sought fresh suggestions from various stakeholders, including public and religious organisations, on the Uniform Civil Code (UCC).
Actionable | Narrative Stance
UCC is a tactic to distract people from the real issues like inflation and unemployment. 

Party, Social Media 
The INC ecosystem should post highlighting that to distract the people from the real issues like price rise, inflation, unemployment, deteriorating law and order in the country, on-going violence in Manipur etc. the BJP is bringing up the issue of UCC.

Note: INC Senior leaders should only comment on the issue if UCC gets traction in public.