National Narrative Recommendations June 12th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Galwan clash anniversary (15th June)
Brief | Chinese leader Xi Jinping calls for strengthening border defence during a visit to Inner Mongolia. Leaked videos of the Galwan clash target the Indian Army in a new disinformation campaign ahead of the June anniversary.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
This BJP government refuses to even acknowledge the current national security threat on the India-China Border
Far from showing 'lal aankh' to China, Modi ji has shut his eyes to Chinese incursions. 

Tribute to Martyrs, AICC HQ
A "Shradhanjali Sabha" should be organised at the AICC headquarters to pay tribute to the martyred soldiers of the Galwan clash.
RG and MK alongwith all INC CMs and senior leaders should participate in the event and pay tribute to the martyrs. 
Invite the veterans who are part of the INC ecosystem and those who participated in the Bharat Jodo Yatra. 

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference after the Shradhanjali Sabha along with the veterans. 
Highlight that even after the three years of Galwan clash, the government has not told the people of India about what really happened there?
"The people of India deserve to know. The families of our bravehearts who sacrificed their lives there deserve to know."
Highlighting that Chinese propaganda platforms are trying to break the morale of our army and our people, the government must tell the people our version of the Galwan clash. 
Ask, where are those red eyes which PM Modi wanted to show to China? Why is PM Modi scared of saying the word 'China'?
Highlight the issue of Pathankot, Uri, Rajouri, Pulwama and Poonch terror attacks, and demand answers on the investigation done so far. 
Demand answers from the BJP on the on-going clashes on the Indo-China Border.
Highlight the anomalies in the implementation of OROP and how the BJP government has betrayed our veterans. 
Highlight the dangers of the Agnipath scheme for our youths and for our national security. Demand from the government to scrap the Agnipath and restore the old system. 

Visit/Call to Families of the Martyrs 
RG should call the family of Colonel Santosh Babu and talk to his wife and kids. 
PCC incharges should visit families of the martyred soldiers and pay tribute. 
Commanding Officer Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu from Hyderabad, Telangana
Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren from Mayurbhanj, Odisha
Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh from Patiala, Punjab
Naib Subedar Satnam Singh (driver) from Gurdaspur, Punjab
Havildar (gunner) K Palani from Madurai, Tamil Nadu
Havildar Sunil Kumar from Patna, Bihar
Havildar Bipul Roy from Meerut City, Uttar Pradesh
Naik (Na) Deepak Kumar from Rewa, Madhya Pradesh
Sepoy Rajesh Orang from Birbhum, West Bengal
Sepoy Kundan Kumar Ojha from Sahibganj, Jharkhand
Sepoy Ganesh Ram from Kanker, Chhattisgarh
Sepoy Chandrakanta Pradhan from Kandhamal, Odisha
Sepoy Ankush from Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh
Sepoy Gurbinder from Sangrur, Punjab
Sepoy Gurtej Singh from Mansa, Punjab
Sepoy Chandan Kumar from Bhojpur, Bihar
Sepoy Kundan Kumar from Saharsa, Bihar
Sepoy Aman Kumar from Samastipur, Bihar
Sepoy Jai Kishor Singh from Vaishali, Bihar
Sepoy Ganesh Hansda from East Singhbhum, Jharkhand
Party, On-Ground 
Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand PCC incharges should organise a "flag hoisting" ceremony in contested areas, pass a resolution to reclaim the 'lost land'. 
DPCC Ladakh should collect testimonials from herders claiming their land has been taken by the Chinese.

Issue 2 | Crops worth 82 cr destroyed due to bad weather in Himachal, maximum damage in Shimla area
Brief | The unseasonal rain and hailstorm in Himachal Pradesh have damaged rabi crops, such as wheat and barley, besides fruit trees and vegetables crops. A state agriculture department report on the damage due to the ongoing erratic weather has pegged the loss to crops at ₹20 crore.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
INC believes in action, what INC promises INC delivers.
Congress hai toh Bharosa hai. 

Party, On-Ground 
Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu should announce a survey to assess the crop loss to provide compensation. 
Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu should take part in conducting the survey, he should visit the farm lands and promise compensation once the survey is completed.

Issue 3 | Dangri Terror Attack: Victim Families Block Jammu-Poonch Highway; Demand Justice
Brief | Demanding justice, hundreds of villagers marched in a procession from Dangri and blocked the busy highway near Muradpur, half-a-km away from the scene of the terror attack in Rajouri district.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP has failed to curb terror attacks on civilians in J&K, despite the UT being under the Centre's control. 

Visit to Families 
Vikar Rasool Wani and Raman Bhalla should visit the families of the victims of the Dangri terror attack and give their condolences.

Press Conference 
Vikar Rasool Wani and Raman Bhalla should hold a press conference to highlight the rising terror attacks in J&K. 
Despite J&K being under the control of the Central government, how are terror attacks continuing?
The BJP government has failed to provide justice to the people who have died in the multiple terror attacks across the country. 
Why has the BJP government failed to convict terrorists? 
Since 2014, 3541 militant attacks have been registered in Jammu and Kashmir, and 7614 Northeastern insurgencies have taken place in the country. How many convictions did the BJP government ensure? 
Demand to know how many convictions resulted from the 3,541 militant attacks registered in Jammu and Kashmir since 2014?
The BJP has failed the terror victims and their kin who have been waiting for justice .

Issue 4 | COWIN data leak
Brief | There has been a data breach on the CoWIN portal, a government-run Covid vaccination portal in India. Personal information of all Indian citizens who registered themselves on the portal, including high profile political leaders, has been made available on Telegram. The leaked data includes sensitive personal information such as PAN number and Aadhaar number.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Both border and cyber security are suffering under the BJP.
Is there anything in this country that is safe other than rapists under BJP?
 
Press Conference 
Shashi Tharoor should hold a press conference to highlight that the BJP government is responsible for the privacy breach.
Demand a high level judicial probe into data management done by the government to protect sensitive and personal data under Cowin and Aarogya Setu.
Highlight that, under PM Modi, India's security, especially cybersecurity, is extremely weak. 

Party, Social Media
Social Media handles of the INC ecosystem should highlight that India's cybersecurity is extremely poor under the Modi government. 
Highlight that this data can be used by cyber terrorists and Chinese agencies to harm common citizens. 
#IndiaHacked