National Narrative Recommendations June 21st, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh to visit Jammu from June 22 to 26
Brief | Vice President Jagdeep Dhankar will arrive in Jammu on June 22 on his maiden visit followed by a visit by Home Minister Amit Shah on June 23 and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on June 26. Dhankar is scheduled to attend the Special Convocation of the University of Jammu. Shah will address a rally in Jammu on June 23 to mark the "martyrdom day" of BJP ideologue Syama Prasad Mukherjee and chair a review meeting about the security arrangements for the annual Amarnath Yatra starting July 1.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
 BJP's approach has worsened tensions, escalating security issues and alienating the people of J&K.

Press Conference 
Raman Bhalla, Vikar Rasool, Tariq Hameed Karra, Rajani Patil and Ghulam Ahmad Mir should hold a joint press conference in Jammu to highlight the failure of the BJP government to conduct elections in Jammu and Kashmir for the last 5 years. 
Highlight that J&K is grappling with stagnated infrastructure development 
Emphasis on growing polarization, social unrest, and communal tensions. 
Ask Amit Shah questions:
Where is the government's roadmap for the restoration of statehood in Jammu and Kashmir?
Why are unelected men taking decisions on the behalf of the masses?
Why have there been no elections for the J&K assembly since the last 5 years?
Why has the government not announced special packages for boosting the local economy and supporting employment generation in Jammu and Kashmir. 
Where is proper security and rehabilitation support for Kashmiri Pandits?

Party, On-Ground
Raman Bhalla should organise a protest against Amit Shah protest outside the review meeting venue. 
Mobilise people to show black flags and placards asking Amit Shah "why has there been no election in J&k for 5 years?" and "Go back Shah."
IYC and NSUI should hold a silent protest outside the review meeting venue highlighting "Stop dividing people Amit Shah".
Hoardings and posters of "Go back Shah" across Jammu.

Issue 2 | Opposition meet in Patna on 23 June
Brief | The Opposition meeting will be held on June 23 in Patna. Both Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge and former president Rahul Gandhi have confirmed their presence.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Modi Sarkar ki ulti Ginti shuru. 
Patna ki all opposition meet me pure Bharat ka pratinidhitva hai. 

Press Conference, MK
Highlight the agenda of the all opposition meet. 
Highlight that the discussion and consensus will be taken on the issue of caste census, proportionate representation, on-going Manipur violence and the failure of the BJP government, and demand for resignation of Amit Shah.
Announce that all the opposition parties will be going to Manipur from Patna, as Modi is busy touring the world the opposition will meet the Manipuri people and find a peaceful resolution. 
Highlight that the days of the BJP government at the centre are numbered. In less than 350 days, India will be free from this authoritarian regime. 
Highlight that the countdown against the BJP has begun - in less than 350 days, 'Nafrat Ki Bazaar' will be closed and India will be back on the path of peace, progress, and prosperity. 
In less than a year's time, India will have a government which will have a representation of all people and will work for all. 

Party, On-Ground
RG and MK should travel in a train from Delhi to Patna to attend the all opposition meeting.
RG and MK should meet people at every station