National Narrative Recommendations June 9th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Himanta Biswa Sarma to visit Manipur tomorrow
Brief | Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to visit Manipur on Saturday. Sarma will be meeting his Manipur counterpart N Biren Singh and other leaders in the backdrop of the ongoing situation in the State,
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP has failed to resolve the violence in Manipur.
Amit Shah came as a tourist and now Himanta is visiting Manipur as optics.

Press Conference
Okram Ibobi Singh and Keisham Meghachandra should hold a press conference to highlight that BJP is not concerned about people of Manipur, Himanta is visiting Manipur for his political gains.
Ask "in what capacity is Himanta visiting Manipur?"
Highlight that after Amit Shah, Himanta is another tourist in Manipur. These people are incapable of finding a solution, they are here just for photo- op. 
Highlight that Biren Singh is a puppet of the BJP, he is controlled by Himanta and Amit Shah. 
Highlight that Manipur's issues will be solved by the people of Manipur, not by outsiders who divide people for their political gains. 
Why is the PM not coming to Manipur and Himanta Biswa coming to visit Manipur?
Highlight that INC is sending a ticket for PM Modi to visit Manipur.

Issue 2 | In Uttarkashi, 'love jihad' row weighs heavy on some shopkeepers, residents
Brief | One of the two accused is from the minority community in the area, and right-wing majoritarian groups are using this as an excuse to nudge Muslim-owned shops out of business
Devbhoomi Raksha Abhiyan, a right-wing group, has allegedly pasted posters across the district asking Muslims, the minority in the area, to leave town.
 Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami has assured strict action in connection with 13 'love jihad' cases, which have emerged from the hill state.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP cannot face the public on the real issues troubling them, so it distracts them with hate and bigotry. 
When will the BJP speak about price rise, unemployment, destruction of MSMEs, the farmers' distress we are facing, the Chinese incursion?

Press Conference: 
Yashpal Arya should hold a press conference to highlight that Pushkar Singh Dhami is not concerned about the real issues and keeps creating unnecessary controversies. 
Highlight that Dhami's focus on Love Jihad issues is to divert the attention from his failures. 
Highlight that Nainital is looking at a major crisis like Joshimath. Instead of taking steps to avoid that crisis, the CM wants to play communal politics. 

Party, On-ground 
The cadre should paste posters at major hotspots across the state: 'Wake up Dhami, focus on real issues'.

Issue 3 | 'Love jihad' won't be allowed in MP: CM
Brief | Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan has asserted that 'love' is acceptable in MP but 'Jihad' would not be allowed under any circumstances.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Shivraj has nothing new to offer to the people of Madhya Pradesh that's why he is spreading communal hatred in the state. 

Press Conference: 
Jitu Patwari should hold a press conference to highlight thatShivraj Singh Chouhan wants to divert people's attention from his government's failure and multiple scams under his rule. 
Highlight that BJP knows that they are going to lose the upcoming elections therefore they are spreading hatred to polarise people. 
Highlight that the BJP MP government will not talk about the scams and corruption cases, they will only focus on politicising trivial issues. 
What has the Shivraj Singh government achieved in its term as the CM, there is no development in MP but the CM chooses to focus on issues like love jihad. 

Party, On-ground 
The cadre should paste posters highlighting scams during Shivraj government in Madhya Pradesh: 'Mama Mudde Pe Aao, Janta Ko Mamu Mat Banao'