National Narrative Recommendations June 27th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | PM Modi in Madhya Pradesh today, to inaugurate 5 Vande Bharat trains
Brief | Prime Minister Narendra Modi will physically and virtually flag off five new Vande Bharat Express trains from Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal's Rani Kamlapati Railway Station.
Actionable | Narrative stance 
Is it Vande Bharat or PM Express, which cannot be flagged off by anyone else?
Modi the Inaugurate refuses to solve the issues plaguing the railway, but doesn't miss an opportunity to use them as a photo op 
PM Modi is just a Prachar Mantri, he is inaugurating fancy trains, instead of making ordinary trains for the aam Aadmi more comfortable.

Press Conference 
Kamal Nath should hold a press conference to highlight that the PM is just a Parchaar Mantari, the PM just keeps inaugurating trains and buildings ignoring the issues of the people. 
Highlight the misuse of railway funds that was brought to light by CAG report.
Highlight that the Modi government is just busy in its Prachar and ignoring the safety of common Indians.
Highlight the ticket prices have substantially increased and the BJP has failed to launch trains for the poor people. 
Highlighting that the BJP has just repurposed Shatabdi as Vande Bharat, speed hasn't been increased and at a number of stops have decreased.
MK should give a statement highlighting that the BJP government just simply changes the names of the policies and projects and takes credit. 
Why are the safety protocols not followed by the railways?
Now that Modi Ji is flagging off all the trains, is he the one who is responsible for the lack of maintenance and deterioration of the Indian railways?
PM Modi is always ready to take the credit but will he take the credit of all the railway derailments and accidents?

Protest
DCCC should organise protests outside of Railway Stations with the placard with the message 'Train Khali, Prachaar Full', highlighting how this Govt has completely neglected the common man in their plan. 
INC workers should distribute/place pamphlets on every seat of Vande Bharat highlighting the number of insufficient railway staff and vacant railway posts. 

Party, Social media 
All leaders should post a 30 second video of PM Modi just flagging off Vande Bharat trains and caption it: Modiji har cheez karsakte hain, train bhi inaugurate kar sakte hain

Issue 2 | Railway contract workers complain of being forced to clean train toilets with bare hands
Brief | Chairman of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis M. Venkatesan and railway officials were shocked when a railway contract employee complained that the contract employees were forced to clear blockages in toilets of trains with their bare hands.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
The BJP government has completely neglected the safety of Safai Karamcharis, this shows their anti-Dalit attitude.

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference highlighting the issues of the railway safai karamcharis and the lack of adequate staff to maintain railways.
Highlighting how the railway safai karamcharis in Madurai lack basic equipment like safety gear and gloves and have to clean the toilets with bare hands. 
The BJP government refuses to accept that manual scavenging is still being practised in government institutions, they state all manual scavenging deaths as accidental deaths.
MK should highlight that in 2013 UPA passed the Manual Scavenging Act to transform the lives of Safai Karamcharis, BJP has failed to implement the act. 
Highlight that BJP has failed to provide Right to Dignity at Workplace. 
Promise that when INC comes to power the Manual Scavenging Act will be revisited and revised to cater to all the needs of the people.

Letter by MK 
MK should write a letter to the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK). Highlighting all the major issues of the Railway Safai employees. 
Highlight the unaddressed Manual scavenging and the lack of adequate number of staff to maintain railways.
MK should write a letter to the Railway Minister highlighting the plight of safai karamcharis in the Railways.
What steps has the government taken to hold contractors accountable??
Why is the railway minister not concerned about the safety of the people working for the railways?
 Why are the railway safai karamcharis not provided with adequate equipment for cleaning?

Party, On-Ground 
RG and PCC Chiefs should visit railway stations and meet the safai karmacharis to understand their issues.
Demand safety equipment for workers for their safety. 
INC should reach out to NGOs and organisations working for the rights of manual scavengers. 
Party, Social Media
All party leaders should post that BJP has failed the people of the country, highlighting how the railway staff lacks basic cleaning equipment.

Issue 3 | Power tariff to be 20% higher during peak night hours
Brief | New electricity rules will allow for cuts in power tariffs of up to 20% during the day and increases of up to 20% during peak night hours, the power ministry said on Friday, in a move aimed at increasing the use of renewable energy.

These changes come into effect from commercial/industrial consumers from April 2024, and others from April 2025 onwards.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Vada acche dinon ka tha, raat ki toh Modi sarkar ne baat hi nahi ki 
 The move aims to hamper the non-BJP state government's welfare scheme of free power 
Bohot hui mehengai ki maar, Modi sarkar ko karenge nikaal bahar 
Hum kare to balatkar, Modi kare to chamatkar 
Modi ji always goes all out to help his best friend, Adani 
Modi's 1-2-3 formula for price hike - after cylinders and petrol/diesel, now even electricity prices are hiked.

Press Conference 
Supriya Shrinate, in a presser, should highlight that the move is designed to increase the fiscal pressure on state governments that had promised free power 
Emphasise that the Modi government is anti-welfare 
Point out that the move will not just increase the fiscal burden on states but also on households, and businesses 
Say after rise in fuel and cylinder prices, increase in electricity tariffs is the next nail in the coffin for the common man who is struggling to survive given the inflation 
Allege that the move has been designed to fill the pockets of Adani 
Highlight how the BJP had itself hiked the electricity tariffs in May 2023, and then falsely blamed the Congress for the hike. 
Letter
 All CMs should write a letter to the PM, condemning the tariff hike. 
Highlight that while all INC governments are giving subsidies and the BJP government is hiking the prices that will negatively impact the people.

Party, On-Ground
PCC incharges should organise a mass protests across the country demanding that the government roll back the tariff hike. 
INC should start a "Batti Gul" campaign
Ask people to shut off their lights for 1 hour across the country to highlight that electricity price hike is going to impact common people. 
Party, social media 

All INC leaders should release a video in front of a candle/diya explaining how the electricity hike is the next blow to the common man, after rising price of gas cylinders and petrol/diesel.

INC ecosystem should run spoof videos on Modi asking people to light diyas, as Modi ji was preparing people for the day electricity would become unaffordable.
INC handles should start a 'Thank You Modi Ji' videos where grandparents thank Modi ji as their grandkids will also get to study under a street lamp like them 
INC social media handles should post videos of BJP ministers condemning price rise, while Modi and Adani shake hands.