National Narrative Recommendations June 13th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Jo ho gaya so ho gaya. Give peace a chance: Manipur CM N Biren Singh
Brief | Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh asked people to move on and give peace a chance, announcing setting up of prefabricated homes in 15 days for displaced people.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
The 9 year growth story of the BJP in the Northeast is of failure and incompetence to bring peace in the Northeastern States. 
People want justice, not 'Jo Ho Gaya So Ho Gaya'. 

Press Conference 
MK should hold a press conference to highlight the insensitivity of the CM N Biren Singh, for over a month Manipur has been strangled in continuous violence and the CM of the State says "Jo ho gaya so gaya."
Is the CM saying that the violence that has been happening in Manipur for over 50 days, 100+ deaths, 50000+ displacement, 4000+ cases of arson, and the theft of 100s of weapons were nothing? 
The Statement of CM exposes his insensitivity and incompetence both. 
The Home Minister's visit was a political formality, the violence kept on going when he was in the State and the scenario did not change even after his visit.
CM Biren Singh is complicit in letting violence prevail in the State for over a month. After a month he comes and demands peace stating that "Jo ho gaya so ho gaya". 
Who is accountable for the violence and death of innocent people and displacement of thousands? 
Highlight that BJP propagates the development model in Northeast, then why has PM Modi been unable to visit Manipur? 
BJP NEDA chief Himanta Biswa is unaware of the cultural diversity of the Northeast and does not know how to represent the rest of the Northeastern States. 
Highlight that Biren Signh is an ineffective and incompetent CM and demand his resignation.

Party, On-Ground
IYC and NSUI should paste posters across Delhi "Manipur Jal Raha Hai" with images of violence. 
IYC should file an FIR in Delhi against CM Biren Singhs ignorance and letting violence go on for over a month.
IYC and NSUI should hold a silent protest in Delhi outside the Ministry of Home Affairs with tape on their mouth/ bands covering eyes, to highlight the ignorance of the government towards the on-going violence in Manipur.

Issue 2 | 'Will shut Twitter down, raid homes': Jack Dorsey's claim on 'pressure' from India during farmers' protest
Brief | Co-founder of Twitter Jack Dorsey claimed that the Indian government had put pressure on the platform to block accounts related to farmer's protest, by threatening to shut down the platform, raid employee's homes and close down Twitter offices, because of their refusal to comply
Actionable | Narrative Stance: 
BJP has pushed the democracy beyond breaking point, to curtail the freedom of speech of the press and media 

Press Conference 
Shashi Tharoor should hold a press conference to highlight that the BJP is curbing freedom of speech by imposing censorship. 
The BJP government is constantly trying to shut down voices of dissent, bullying organisations like twitter to not report the wrongdoings of the government. 
The BJP government has relentlessly tried to quash voices of dissent, but time and again people of the country have proved that the electorate is much more powerful than the government. 
The farmers protest is the best example of the people's will, the Modi government had to revoke their draconian farm bill. Modi was forced to apologise to the farmers, the power of people is such. 
The BJP government can try suppressing dissent by imposing censorship but the people of the country will always win.

Issue 3 | Section 144 imposed in Roorkee Uttarakhand after locals clash with people
Brief | Nearly half a dozen police personnel were injured during a clash that broke out at Belra village in Uttarakhand's Roorkee over an alleged murder of a person there.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Under the BJP government the law and order across Uttrakhand is deplorable.
All BJP CMs are incompetent and just puppets in the hands of the Central Government 

Press Conference 
Harak Singh Rawat should hold a press conference to highlight the deteriorating law and order condition in the state of Uttarakhand.
CM Pushkar Dhami has failed to maintain law and order in the state where there is a rise of crimes against women. 
Demand Pushkar Dhami to ensure that the law and order situation is rectified in Uttarakhand before he comes out and says "Jo ho gaya so ho gaya". 
Immediate action should be taken against those who are perpetuating disturbance and a sense of fear in Uttarakhand. 
Highlight that under the that "desh jal raha hai, BJP ke raaj mei", highlight the instance of rising violence across all the BJP governed States 

Party, On-Ground 
DPCC should create poster's highlighting the incompetent CMs of BJP across its double engine states and how they are dummy CMs for the Centre to rule in the state through them. 

Party, Social Media
All leaders should post highlighting the incompetence of BJP CMs and the rise of violence in all the States.

Issue 4 | Cyclone Biparjoy
Brief | India Meteorological Department on Tuesday informed that the powerful cyclone Biparjoy has weakened to a 'very severe cyclonic storm' from an 'extremely severe cyclonic storm.' As of now, IMD has predicted that it will hit Gujarat's coastal areas including Kutch and Saurashtra on June 15. With this, it is likely to enter Rajasthan on June 16
Actionable | Party, On-Ground
MK and RG give a call to all INC workers to be prepared to provide assistance to affected people. 
MK should call local Congress leaders in Gujarat, and cyclone hit states to extend support. 
Direct DCCs and PCCs to convert all INC offices in cyclone hit areas into shelter homes for the needy. 
AIPC leaders should coordinate with doctors and constitute a response team for relief work.