National Narrative Recommendations June 6th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | After 2 statements against him, the minor withdraws charges against WFI chief Brij Bhushan
Brief | After alleging sexual harassment and stalking against Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) president and BJP MP Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh in two statements, one before the police and another before a magistrate, the lone minor among the seven female wrestlers has withdrawn her allegations
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Karna tha Brij Bhushan ko arrest, Betiyon ko hi dara- dhamka rhe hain. 
Aap chronology samjhaye 2 din pehle Amit Shah wrestlers se mile aur un par pressure banaya 
BJP Balatkariyon Ko Surakhsa Deti Hai Aur Desh Ki Betiyon Ko Darati Hai

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh, Alka Lamba and Ragini Naik should hold a press conference to give a statement to highlight that BJP threatens the victims and forces them to take the cases back.
 Highlight that Amit Shah is perpetuating rape culture and protects the rapists. 
Highlight that everytime BJP MPs/ MLAs do something wrong , he intimidates the victims and forces them to take their cases back. 
Highlight that people think Amit Shah is Chanakyaa , however he is just a saviour to his rapist friends. 

Press Byte 
MK should give a press byte highlighting that the case has been taken back under the pressure , INC stands with the victims and will continue to fight for justice. 

Tweet , RG
RG should tweet in solidarity with wrestlers - ' I stand with you , do not be scared of anyone. Be courageous and fight. # DaroMat'

Party , Social Media 
All INC leaders and party workers should tweet in solidarity with wrestlers urging them to not give up the fight. 
Using #DaroMat
Selfie Modules should be released on Social media where all INC leaders and party workers will click a selfie with a filter - We stand with Golden Girls. 
IYC and NSUI members should encourage people to participate in the challenge and tag their friends.

Issue 2 | Gujarat: Villagers chop off Dalit man's thumb after his nephew picks up cricket ball on the playground
Brief | Villagers in Gujarat's Patan district allegedly assaulted a Dalit man and chopped off his thumb after his nephew picked up a cricket ball during a match at a school playground.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Dalit- Virodhi Bhajpa Sarkar Me Daliton Ke Upar Atyachar Badhta Hi Ja Rha hai. 
Bhajpa ko sirf Dalit vote lene ke time yaad aate hain, Daliton par jab atyachar hota hai vo Bhajpa ko Dikhai nahi deta. 

Press Conference
Note: While interacting with the media MK should wear black clothes as a sign of protest. MK should attend the first parliament session wearing black clothes. Raise the issue of injustice and discrimination at every instance. 
MK should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight the instances of Dalit atrocities in the last 9 years of BJP government.
Highlighting that the Dalit community is fed up with the BJP government, BJP has not done anything for the Dalits. 
Karnataka election results are the testament that all the SC community voted for INC. 
Jignesh Mevani and Anant Patel should hold a press conference in Gujarat, to highlight the rising instances of Dalit atrocities under the BJP government.
Highlight in all the cases of assault against the Dalit community in the last 9 years of the BJP government. 
Highlight that since BJP has come to power cases of lynching and hate crimes against Dalits have exponentially increased. 
Demand for the arrest of the culprit.

Meeting with MK
MK should meet the victims of Dalit atrocities from Haryana and Gujarat to highlight the rising crimes against Dalits. 
Promise that INC will keep fighting for the Dalits of the country and there will be no tolerance to atrocities against Dalits.

Protest 
Jignesh Mevani should mobilise the Dalit community leaders to lead a protest against assault on Dalits.
Jignesh Mevani should organise a pledge taking mega event in Unnao, to pledge that no Dalit will tolerate any kind of discrimination and assault.
Gujarat PCC should organise an All India Dalit cricket match, invite Dalit cricket aspirants for the match. 

Party, On-Ground
Gujarat PCC should set-up a Daalit Bachao Manch, an organisation that will focus on providing assistance and support instances of Dalit atrocities, hold protest and ensure assistance to Dalit communities to avail resources.
INC governed States should announce Eklavya Scholarships in sports to promote participation of Dalit children in sports.
Jignesh Mevani in collaboration with Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch should expand its reach across the country to provide assistance and support to the victims of atrocities.

Issue 3 | Rahul Gandhi owns a shopping mall of hatred: JP Nadda
Brief | JP Nadda said that Mr. Gandhi is running a 'shopping mall of hatred' and not a Mohabbat Ki Dukan.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Nafrat Chodo, Bharat Jodo
Bhajpa ko bhi pta hai ki Rahul ji ki Mohabbat Ki Dukan Pure desh me chal rhi hai. 

Party , On-ground
All INC leaders , MLAs and party workers should send Gulaab to JP Nadda - sending a message of mohabbat in nafrat ka bazaar. 

Party , Social Media 
All INC leaders and party workers should post ' Nafrat Chodo , Bharat Jodo' on their social media and tag JP Nadda.