National Narrative Recommendations June 8th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Oil ministry expects OMCs to cut fuel prices as crude declines
Brief | The government expects oil marketing companies (OMCs) to cut fuel prices after the fuel giants reported profits in the fourth quarter of the financial year 2022-23. Crude prices have declined in the last few months amid inflation and recession worries and have hovered around $75 a barrel. Crude prices touched an all-time high of $140 per barrel in March 2022.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Crude oil prices have decreased to almost half since March 2022, But they are still the same in India. Who has allowed this loot?
BJP sarkar me oil companies Aam Janta ki jeb par daaka daal rhi hain. 

Press Conference
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to highlight that the crude oil prices are decreasing globally but in India prices of petrol keep increasing. 
Demand for cutting down the prices of petrol and diesel by 50%.
Highlight the petrol price was only increased during the UPA when crude oil prices increased, whereas under the BJP government when the crude oil prices fell the prices of petrol and diesel kept increasing. 

Party, On-Ground 
DPCC should organise a protest in all districts outside petrol pumps demanding the price of petrol to be capped at Rs.75 and of diesel at Rs.50. 
DPCC should advertise on hoardings in the proximity of petrol pumps comparing the prices of petrol and diesel during UPA and BJP governments. 
DPCC should paste posters across the country with petrol and diesel prices with the tagline "Wah Modi Ji Wah"
 PCC should organise "drag a bike" protests across the country, people will drag bikes to petrol pumps to highlight the rising prices of petrol and diesel.

Party, Social Media
All party leaders should post a comparative of prices of petrol and diesel during BJP and UPA governments with the title "Wah Modi Ji Wah"

Issue 2 | The Gehlot government is preparing to increase the OBC reservation from 21 percent to 27 percent.
Brief | AICC in-charge of Rajasthan, Sukhjinder Randhawa has held a marathon meeting with the SC-ST and OBC ministers of the state. In this, the possibilities of increasing the reservation quota were considered.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Jitani Abaadi, Utna Haq
Who is the real sympathiser of OBCs - Congress the party that is giving reservation to OBCs or BJP that is trying to abolish it?

Press Conference
Ashok Gehlot should hold a press conference in Rajasthan to highlight that INC is a pro-OBC party.
Highlighting that the increase in the percentage of the OBC reservation is an initiation, INC will conduct a caste-census and ensure that all communities get proportionate representation.
Request the Governor to approve the bill at the earliest and not take inspiration from Chhattisgarh. 

Party, On-Ground
DPCC should mobilise the civil society to raise the demand for caste-census. 

Note: When announcement for increasing OBC reservation is being made RG should be present.

Issue 3 | Duped by Punjab agent, over 700 Indian students in Canada on risk of deportation; protests launched
Brief | More than 700 Indian students are facing a threat of deportation on account of the 'fake offer letters' that were provided to them by their agent in Jalandhar, Punjab. The affected students have now reached out to higher authorities and have sought help.
Actionable | Narrative Stance : 
The BJP government has failed to create employment opportunities in the country, forcing people to migrate to other countries.
Modi Ji calls himself a vishwaguru, where Modi's support when hundreds of students' future is at stake due to incompetence of the BJP government. 

Press byte 
Sukhpal Singh Khaira should give a press byte to highlight that BJP failed to take cognizance of the situation, hundreds of students' futures are at risk today. 
The Modi government has failed to create jobs in the country forcing the youth to migrate to other countries. 
We demand that the BJP government should talk to the Canadian government and find a resolution to the current situation.

Issue 4 | 3 Months, 8 Cities: Rise in Violence, Communal Tensions in Maharashtra Spurs Political War of Words
32-Year-Old Woman Killed, Body Chopped Into Pieces By Live-In Partner In Mumbai's Mira Road, Accused Arrested
Brief | Cities like Sambhajinagar, Akola, Shegaon and Sangamner in Ahmednagar and Jalgaon, Mumbai and now Kolhapur have been on tenterhooks the past few months, with the opposition parties attacking the Eknath Shinde-Devendra Fadnavis government for the poor law and order situation.
A mutilated body of a 32-year-old woman was found from a flat in Mira Road in the far suburbs of Mumbai.
Actionable | Narrative Stance : 
Under the BJP led government the law and order situation is continuously deteriorating.
Maharashtra Me na Dalit Surakshit hain, Na mahilaye surakshit hain, na bachhe surakshit hain, na shahar aur na hi gaon. Jab se Panna Khoke Sarkar aayi hai, Apradhiyon ke hausale badh gaye hain. 

Press Conference : 
Nana Patole , Balasaheb Thorat , Bunty Patil and Ashok Chauhan should hold a press conference to give a statement that Congress stands against any communal violence and crimes related to caste and women. 
Highlight that the government is unable to maintain law and order in the state. 
Highlight that Shinde-BJP government is responsible for the surge in communal violence cases in the state. 
Should demand resignation of Devendra Fadnavis. 

Press Byte : 
Varsha Gaikwad and Yashomati Thakur should give a press byte to highlight that crime against women is rising everyday and the BJP-Shinde government is incompetent to keep the Betiyan surakshit. 
Highlight that the BJP-Shinde government does not have any women representation , hence ignoring women issues. 
Should demand resignation of Devendra Fadnavis. 

Sauhard Sabhas 
BPCC will organise Sauhard Sabha and invite all community and caste influencers and people. 
Sarpanch / Sabhapati / Teacher or any influencer should address the sabha - INC believes in the unitedness of all communities and castes. 

Party, On-ground: 
Mahila Congress and senior women MLAs should protest outside Devendra Fadnavis's residence .