National Narrative Recommendations June 23rd, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | All opposition meet in Patna
Brief | With opposition leaders from across the country pouring into Patna, it has turned into a battleground, with the BJP going on an overdrive flooding the city with posters branding the meeting as "gathering of thugs."
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP is scared of the opposition unity
The 2024 election is Gandhi v/s Godse

Press Conference 
MK and RG should hold a joint press conference to highlight the strength of the opposition and that the opposition is united for India. 
Highlight that the opposition has come together on the issues:
Caste Census
Unemployment 
Price Rise 
Agricultural Distress
Privatisation 
This election is about the people of the country, every citizen is tired of the incompetent BJP government. 
This election people will vote on the issues and not the hate and violence that the BJP has been spreading in the country. 
Highlighting that BJP is looking to form alliances across the country, it is through these alliances that the BJP has been able to unconstitutionally toppel State governments. 
Highlight that the BJP is scared of the opposition unity and they know that they are going to lose the 2024 elections.
This is election is an election of Gandhi v/s Godse

Issue 1 | Narendra Modi US Visit
Brief | With opposition leaders from across the country pouring into Patna, it has turned into a battleground, with the BJP going on an overdrive flooding the city with posters branding the meeting as "gathering of thugs."
Actionable | Narrative Stance . 
The Indian PM is in the US at the invitation of the Biden White House and yet members from Biden's party keep criticising the Indian PM and are also attempting to influence and intervene in India's internal matters. (Ghar Bulaye Mehman ka Apmaan)

Editorials 
INC should ensure that opinion articles should be published by neutral influencers in national and regional newspapers highlighting that on the US visit the US insulted Modi, which is an insult to India.
Highlight how Democrats and US citizens have protested against Modi and have questioned Indian democracy. 
Highlighting that Modi has kept quiet on the treatment, not a single US representative came to welcome PM Modi. 

Party, Social Media
INC ecosystem should start a trend "US insulted Modi which is a insult to India"
In the process of marketing your Vishwaguru image, why is the country losing its dignity to the US?
By questioning Indian democracy the US leaders and media are insulting India and BJP is celebrating the insult.