National Narrative Recommendations June 28, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | BJP to move 'no-trust' motion against Baghel government in poll-bound Chhattisgarh
Brief | The Bhupesh Baghel government will be cornered on multiple issues, including scams, law & order
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
The BJP has no leg to stand on, and is therefore levelling false allegations. 
BJP ke pass koi asli mudda nahi hai, isliye no-confidence motion ka drama kar rahi hai. 

Party, On Ground 
TS Deo, Mohan Markam, and Nand Kumar Sai should give statements to the media saying that the Chhattisgarh government's model of governance is an example for other states.
Emphasise that the no-confidence motion is a toothless threat, 
BJP which does not have a real agenda is trying to discredit the good work of the Chhattisgarh's INC government. . 
Call it a case of ulta chor, kotwal ko dante, as it is the BJP government at the Centre, which should be removed through a no-confidence motion
Urge the Chattisgarh BJP unit to focus on keeping its flock together as in the coming days a number of BJP leaders are going to join INC.

Issue 2 | Nearly a month after Odisha's train accident, victims' kin still wait for bodies
Brief | Around 35 people have been camping at a guest house near AIIMS Bhubaneswar waiting for the bodies while 15 others have left for home due to a delay in the arrival of DNA reports.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
When will Ashwini Vaishnaw resign?
The Modi government has still not fixed accountability for the tragedy. 
After every crisis, BJP always finds scapegoats while real culprits go unpunished.
Far from providing support to the next of kin, victims' families are facing harassment due to government mismanagement. 

Visit Families
MK and PCC Sarat Pattanayak should visit the families of the victims and give assurance that the party will help them. 

Shradhanjali Sabha 
OPCC Sarat Pattnayak should organise a Shradhanjali Sabha for all the deceased and invite their families. 
MK should address the Sabha, expressing disheartenment over the incident and request BJP to take accountability. 
Request the state government to provide jobs to the victims. 

Press Conference 
MK and PCC president Sarat Pattanayak should hold a press conference to highlight the BJP's ignorance towards Balasore tragedy. 
Highlight that it's been a month since that unfortunate train accident.
The BJP government should tell people what action they have taken against those responsible for it?
Who is the real killer of Balasore?
Why has Ashwini Vaishnaw not resigned yet?
Why have the victim's bodies not been identified even after a month?
Highlight that the victim's families are waiting outside the hospital to receive the body but the Railway Minister is busy doing his PR. 
Demand that the Railway Minister should be removed immediately.
The victims' kin receive their loved ones' bodies as soon as possible
The next of kin of the victims should be given a government job.

Issue 3 | BJP likely to make UCC a poll plank for MP, RJ, CG and 2024
Brief | Various INC leaders have given divergent statements on the UCC and the party's stance on it is yet unclear
Actionable | Note : A strict guideline should be released by the party instructing all the CMs, MLAs and spokespersons to not give a statement on UCC beyond the line set by MK/RG. 

Narrative Stance 
UCC is a distraction from the issues such as inflation, unemployment etc. 
The INC will not comment on the issue till the BJP releases a draft. 

Press Conference: 
RG and MK should hold a press conference highlighting that INC will not comment until the draft UCC is released. 
Demand that the BJP hold nationwide consultations with every community before going forward with any UCC proposal
BJP has a history of taking decisions without discussion with stakeholders, such as demonetisation, CAA-NRC, Farm Laws. Will this be any different?