National Narrative Recommendations October 12th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | J&K Admin Ignored Own Depts' Advice to Amend Multi-Crore Contract to Favour Private Co: IAS Officer
Brief | The Jammu and Kashmir administration headed by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha went against the advice of the finance and law departments and amended a multi-crore contract midway to favour a private insurance company (Bajaj Allianz General insurance Company), a letter by an IAS officer has alleged.

In another complaint to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC), Parmar alleged that J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta had harassed, intimidated and threatened him, due to their prejudice and bias against him for being a Scheduled Caste IAS officer.
Actionable | Part 1 - Corruption under BJP

Narrative Stance 
BJP matlab Bhrasht Janta Party 
Jahan Jahan Bhajpa, Wahan Wahan Bhrashtachar. 
Modi ki ek scheme ka naam batao jisme Bhrashtachar Nahi hai?
Nafarat, Hinsa, aur Bhrashtachar - Yahi hai asli Bhajpa Sarkar

Note: INDIA alliance partners shall continuously talk about the scams that took place under Modi's watch to cement corrupt BJP narrative in voters' conscience. 

Series of Press Conferences, INDIA bloc
INDIA bloc leaders shall hold a series of press conferences in every state capital for a month to highlight the corruption by different BJP governments in the states and the centre government. 
Refute Modi's claim that there has not been a single scam in his tenure.
Provide a list of all the scams and highlight how BJP used diversion tactics to distract people from their loot. 
Highlight the scams exposed by governments own auditing agency- CAG
Ayushman Bharat Scam
Bharatmala Project
Dwarka Expressway
NHAI Toll Scam
Swadesh Darshan Scam (Ayodhya Development Project): 
Pension money for advertisement
HAL- Faulty Aircraft Engine Designs
Highlight the scams of the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh- the BJP government is now known as Ghotala Sarkar. 
BJP in Madhya Pradesh is so corrupt that it carried out the sequel of a scam - Vyapam 2.0 
Poshan scam - Rs 15,000 crore 
Mid-day meal scam- Rs 12,000 crore
Aanganwadi tap water scam - Rs 9,500 crore 
Uniform scam- Rs 600 crore 
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan scam- Rs 2,000 crore 
Vyapam scam- Rs 2,000 crores 
Nursing scam- Rs 2,000 crores 
Kaushal scam- Rs 3,000 crores
Paramedical Scholarship scam - Rs 2,500 crores
Electricity scam -Rs 94,000 crores
Jal Jeevan Mission scam -Rs 10,000 crores 
Check Post scam -Rs 50,000 crores

BJP lost Karnataka assembly elections because it had broken all the records of corruption in the state. 
The Karnataka BJP government was famous as the 40% Sarkara- 40% commission in everything. 
PSI scam
Bitcoin Scam
40% commission in government works
The Uttarakhand BJP government was caught in a recruitment scam. 
The Goa BJP government is taking a 28% cut in all funds. 
The Uttar Pradesh BJP government was involved in illegal land purchase and sale near Ram Temple in Ayodhya. 
In Jammu & Kashmir, the BJP is ruling through a proxy in the name of LG. There also they stole 13000 crores from the Jal Jeevan Mission. 
All BJP governments across the country, including the Modi government at centre, have been exposed for their corruption.
But no government agency has ever dared to conduct a proper probe and take action against the BJP leaders. 
Note: At all press conferences, highlight Karnataka results as the people's verdict against the corrupt BJP government. 
Since no government agency took any action, the people of Karnataka took the action and voted the corrupt BJP out of power. 
BJP can keep hiding their scams- the people of India will take the same action as the people of Karnataka. 

Bhajpa Sarkar ke upar ek Muhavara ekdum Sateek Baithta hai
"Aankh ke Andhe, Naam Nayansukh"

Puri Bhajpa me ek neta, ek sarkar, ek scheme aisi nahi hai jahan ghotla na ho
Puri Bhajpa Bhrastachar se Bhari huyi hai, Par Modi ji Pani Pi Pi kar chillate hai ki maine koi chori nahi ki

Arrey Bhai Chori to tab samne aayegi jab janch karwaoge. Sari janch agencies ko to opposition ke pichhe chhod rakha hai.

Karnataka ke log samajh gaye the ki ghotalebaaj sarkar ka ek hi ilaaj hai vote ki takat se unki chhutti
Bhajapa ka yahi ilaaj Bharat ki janta aane wale dino me pure desh me karne ja rahi hai"
Raj Bhawan Gherao, Srinagar
J&K Congress and IYC should organise a mashal rally from Lal Chowk to Raj Bhawan targeting the LG's corruption.
At Raj Bhawan, they should hold a sit-in protest with placards calling out the LG's corruption.
They should also burn an effigy of the LG.
Demand: immediate elections in J&K because as long as Manoj Sinha continues as LG corruption in J&K will continue unabated. 

Delegation to meet President, Vikar Rasool & Tara Chand
Vikar Rasool should lead a delegation of J&K INDIA leaders to meet the President.
They should submit a memorandum highlighting the increasing instances of corruption in J&K and the involvement of the LG in the matter.
Highlight the disclosure made by the previous LG Satya Pal Malik about instances of corruption.
The people of J&K no longer have any faith in the PM or the HM to provide transparent governance.
The people of J&K are demanding the restoration of their Constitutional rights.
The people are demanding that elections be held immediately in the region so that this corrupt administration can be removed and the people can elect a government which actually cares about the development of the region.

Posters/ Hoardings:
Put up giant posters and hoarding across major cities on highways and high footfall areas enlisting corruption by BJP governments across the country. 
Print Modi's laughing picture with a caption - Kha Bhi Raha Hoon, Khila Bhi Raha Hoon. 

Party, Social Media
Mobilise SM influencers to create short explainer videos explaining BJP's scam in layman's language for mass consumption. 
Organise regular twitter spaces to reiterate the message and active optimal reach. 

Part 2- Dalit Atrocities 

Narrative Stance
Dalit- virodhi Bhajpa sarkar me Daliton ke upar atyachar badhta hi ja rha hai. 
Dalit IAS bhi ban Jaye toh bhi bhajpa ke log uska utpeedan nahi band karnege. 

Meet Ashok Kumar Parmar, RG
RG shall invite IAS Ashok Kumar to his house along with the prominent national level Dalit influencers for a tea. 
Discuss the harassment of Ashok Kumar by BJP's LG for exposing his corruption. 
Discuss how Dalits, Tribals, and Backward caste people are mistreated by their colleagues and superiors in the bureaucracy even after making significant progress in their lives. 

Tweet/Post, MK
Demand Manoj Sinha's immediate removal for harassing an honest Dalit officer for flagging the LG's corruption in Jal Jeevan Mission in J&K.
INC handles and ecosystem should tweet/post BJP is anti-Dalit and Bhajpa is trying to protect the LG.

Issue 2 | Over three lakh appeals and complaints pending with Information Commissions, report finds
Brief | A total of 3,21,537 appeals and complaints are pending in 27 State Information Commissions across the country, and the backlog has been steadily increasing, according to a new report.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
NDA - No Data Available government.
Narendra Modi ka funda clear- na data hoga, na jawabdehi hogi.
Narendra Modi sirf data nahi chhupa rahe hain, Ye apne paap ke saboot Mita rahe hain. 

Press Conference, Pawan Khera 
Hold a press conference to highlight the murder of RTI by BJP. 
Congress introduced and implemented RTI with the intention of establishing transparency and accountability in governance, however BJP has diluted all the provisions of transparency in governance. 
Highlight that around 3 lakhs appeals/complaints are pending and have not been addressed. 
Highlight that the BJP government proposed regressive amendments to the Right to Information in the name of privacy in the Digital Personal Data Protection Bill. 
BJP intentions are clear behind diluting the true spirit of RTI, hiding information from the citizens. 
Modi government will do corruption in many schemes and would ensure that no one asks anything from him. 

Party, Social Media
Trend: #ModiKillingRTI #NoDataAvailable on all social media platforms
Highlight all instances where the Modi government ran away from taking the responsibility by saying that they have no record/ data on a particular issue.

Issue 3 | Manipur bans sharing of videos or photos of violence on social media
Brief | Amid the ethnic conflict, the Manipur government on Wednesday banned the spread of videos and pictures depicting violence on social media. It noted that it had taken cognisance of reports that such pictures were allegedly being spread to "facilitate and/or to mobilise mobs of agitators and demonstrators, which may aggravate the law and order situation in the State".
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP doesn't want to stop violence in Manipur, it only wants to hide the news. 
Modi's continued silence and zero action to stop the violence makes one thing clear- this fire has been fuelled by BJP. 

Press Conference, Gaurav Gogoi
Hold a press conference to condemn the ban on sharing videos or photos on social media. 
Highlight that the state witnessed internest suspension for months, as a result we could not know what was happening inside the state. 
 The BJP government and CM N.Biren Singh failed to control the violence and tried to suppress the reality of what is happening inside Manipur. 
Now videos are being circulated and BJP is scared that everyone will know the truth and BJP will have to answer. 
Ban on sharing videos or photos reflects BJP's fear that their real agenda will be exposed. 

Party, Social Media
Post blurred pictures/videos of Manipur violence with trigger warning and highlight that this is what BJP has done in Manipur and this what they are trying to hide from the rest of the country. 
Demand that banning social media posts will not solve anything, ban this government to stop the violence. 
Trend: #BanGovernmentNotSM