National Narrative Recommendations June 13th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | Kuki militant outfit alleges offering help to BJP to win Manipur 2017 assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls
Brief | Chairman of a Kuki militant outfit alleged that his organisation helped BJP candidates win the 2017 assembly elections and also 2019 LS polls, as per an agreement with Ram Madhav and Himanta Biswa Sarma.
Actionable | Narrative Stance: 
The BJP is hand in glove with militant outfits for electoral gains. 

Press Conference: 
Ibobi Singh and Mukul Wasnik should hold a press conference and highlight the involvement of BJP leaders with both Meitei and Kuki militant leaders. 
Should show photos and newspaper cutouts of BJP leaders meeting Meitei and Kuki militant leaders
Highlight that BJP is happy to deal with militants and makes vote-vcentric decisions. As long as BJP gets votes they will support militant groups and let violence prevail. 
The BJP adopts a use-and-throw approach. They are using Meitei and Kuki groups against each other and hence despite prolonged violence no solution has been found. 
Highlight that the BJP is incompetent and unwilling to resolve the on-going violence in Manipur. 
 Attack Ram Madhav and Himanta Biswa Sharma and question them on "What deal was struck" , "What did they offer the militant groups in return?" and "Is this deal a free pass against prosecution for these militant groups?"
Press Byte 
Bhupen Borah should do a press byte asking why Himanta Biswa Sarma visited Manipur? 
Highlight that Himanta has been involved in conversations with militant groups. 
Sarcastically ask him to meet United Liberation Front Assam(ULFA) and National Social Council of Nagaland (NSCN) to strike a new deal which will let the NE burn.

Issue 2 | Ex Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey's allegations against Modi Government
Brief | Co-founder of Twitter Jack Dorsey claimed that the Indian government had put pressure on the platform to block accounts related to farmer's protest, by threatening to shut down the platform, raid employee's homes and close down Twitter offices, because of their refusal to comply
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP uses all the tactics in its bag to suppress all dissenting voices.
BJP uses censorship to hide its failures.

Press Byte 
Jairam Ramesh should give a press byte to highlight that Ashwini Vaishnav is an incompetent cabinet minister. 
Highlight major scams have happened under his nose - Coromandel express , Cowin data leak and forceful ban on twitter accounts. 
Highlight that he has been hiding and not taking accountability of the mishaps that have happened under his nose. 

Party , Social Media 
All INC leaders and party workers should tweet asking - where is Ashiwini Vaishnav?
The party cadre will share unseen pictures of the 2021 farmers' protest which were not presented by mainstream media.