National Narrative Recommendations June 19th, 2023 (Evening)

Issue 1 | 'Look At Us As Citizens, Feel For Us': Meitei Women To Modi, Amit Shah Amid Manipur Violence (A total of 75 women have come to Delhi from Imphal)
Brief | Addressing a press conference in Delhi, a woman from Imphal said, "We have come to Delhi to request the central government to restore peace in Manipur. We have come here to appeal to the government that this violence be immediately stopped." A total of 75 women have come from Imphal to the national capital to appeal to the Centre to help reduce the violence that has currently gripped Manipur.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Manipur has been burning for 50 days and Modi has been busy travelling. 
Modi is planning a grand celebration with NRIs while our own people are dying in Manipur. 

All Opposition Meet, Patna 
Okram Ibobi Singh should address the all opposition meet in Patna on 23rd June 2023, highlighting that as Manipur completes 50 days of continuous violence it is important to ensure that it becomes a national issue. 
Highlight that as BJP is busy hiding its face from the failures in containing violence in Manipur. 
It is the responsibility of the opposition parties to come together and ensure that communities come together and find a peaceful resolution.
The all opposition meet should start with observing 2 minute silence for all the lives lost in Manipur.
INC should invite displaced groups from Manipur to attend the all opposition meet. 
Invite family members of those who were killed in the violence to address the gathering and demand for immediate peaceful resolution.

Party, On-Ground 
All INC spokespersons when participating in TV debates should wear a badge or have a background banner of Manipur burning.
IYC and NSUI should paste posters across Delhi with Modi's image and tagline "Aap ab bhi chup mat rahiye".
IYC and NSUI should hold a protest outside Manipur Bhawan in Delhi to demand for peaceful resolution and imposition of President's Rule.
INC should place a counter outside the Manipur Bhavan highlighting the number of days Modi has been silent on the Manipur violence.
Formulate a Joint Action Committee consisting of members from both communities to find a way to peaceful resolution.

Party, On-Social Media 
Start a twitter trend #ManipurBurningModiTouring
All INC leaders should post a graphic of what Modi has done in the 50 days since violence erupted in Manipur instead of speaking for the people of Manipur. 
Trip to Australia, Japan and Papua New Guinea
7 days of public meetings and roadshows for Karnataka elections
Inaugurating the new Parliament building 
Inauguration of Vande Bharat trains 
2 Mann Ki Baat Episodes 
Planning to visit US and Egypt

Issue 2 | MP Ladli Bahna Yojana: Banks are 'blowing' Ladli Bahna's money as soon as it is deposited in the account, penalty is also hit on top of that.
Brief | The Madhya Pradesh government transferred Rs 1,000 each to the accounts of 1.25 crore women in the state as it rolled out the 'Ladli Behna Yojana'. 1000 rupees were added to the accounts of all eligible women. Most of them could not benefit from it.
Actionable | Narrative Stance:
Mama Ek Haath Se Dta Hai Dusre Haath Se Leta Hai

Press Conference: 
Kamal Nath should hold a press conference to highlight that CM Shivraj's "Ladli Behna" scheme is another way to scam the women of the State. 
Highlight that women are getting penalised instead of getting money. 
Why is there no policy in Shivraj government that the DBT amount is deposited in zero balance jandhan accounts?

Party; On-Ground
Mahila Congress should hold a protest outside of Vidhan Sabha demanding the CM to give back the money of the women.
Invite beneficiaries of the "Ladli Behna"scheme who have been penalised by the banks, along with the photocopy of their passbooks. 
Women should carry placards with the message "Mama Mahilaon Ke Saath Dhoka Kyun Kiya?"
Demand that women should be given back the money.