National Narrative Recommendations June 26th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Manipur Violence
Brief | At the all-party meeting on Manipur violence convened by Home Minister Amit Shah, most opposition parties demanded the removal of chief minister N Biren Singh for being "partisan and part of the problem". They also insisted the Centre put in place a "time-bound action plan" for peace so that the north-eastern state doesn't simmer again.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Double engine government in Manipur is responsible for this crisis. 
For their electoral gains, BJP will throw the country into civil war. 
People in Manipur are being killed, houses are being burnt, and the PM and Nadda are concerned about their PR campaign. 

Press Conference 
RG should hold a press conference to highlight that it has been more than 50 days and the situation is deteriorating in Manipur.
While Manipur was burning the PM was busy touring around the world, PM Modi has not uttered a single word since the violence started. 
More than 130 people have died and thousands have been displaced but the PM could not even find time to tweet a condolence message. 
Why is the BJP government not taking proactive peace measures to ensure that violence stops?
Manipur CM and Union Home Minister, both, are incompetent and should be held accountable for the violence in Manipur. 
RG should announce that he will be visiting Manipur and will meet both the communities.
Highlight the statement given by Biren Singh where he says that Amit Shah has instructed him to handle the law and order situation in the valley area and assured him that HM will handle the situation in hill districts. 
Highlight that this unofficial division of the state is equivalent to imposing president rule without announcing it officially. 

Party, On-Ground 
An all party delegation led by MK should visit Manipur to take account of the current situation and make efforts towards a peaceful resolution. 
Okram Ibobi Singh should start a Manipur Jodo Yatra in Manipur, mobilise people from both communities and request the people to maintain peace. 
Demand the resignation of CM Biren Singh

Party, Social Media 
RG and MK should tweet and demand for the resignation of CM Biren Singh and Amit Shah.
Highlight that the BJP is not serious about solving the Manipur crisis.
PM is busy touring the world sightseeing and holidaying, while Manipur was burning. Why did the PM not rush back from the US?
Why is the PM silent?
All INC handles should post that there has been an internet ban in Manipur, which means that the ground reality is being hidden by the government. 
Pictures of the PM posing with pyramids should be juxtaposed with the Manipur Violence on social media. The caption should read: 'Desh mein kya chal rhai hai?'

Issue 2 | Wrestlers call off protest
Brief | Over 5 months after some of top wrestlers accused WFI chief Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh of sexual harassment, they have decided to call off the protest and battle it out in court.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
INC stands with the wrestlers be it in the streets or the courts. 
BJP has been successful in saving another Balatkari.

Press Conference 
Supriya Shrinate and Randeep Surjewala should hold a presser to emphasise that the BJP stands with the wrestlers, whether they are protesting on the streets or in court 
Say while hundreds were dying in Manipur, the HM was busy saving Brij Bhushan 
They should congratulate Amit Shah on saving another rapist
Reiterating that the home minister rather than taking a stand for the daughters of the country, had been pressuring them to call off the protest for a long time. 
 
Party, Social Media 
INC should amplify the message of 'HM saves another Balatkari', especially Rajasthan Haryana and UP

Issue 3 | Nirmala Sithraman takes on Obama/ Himanta's comments on Obama
Brief | Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman hit out at former US president Barack Obama for his remarks on protection of Muslims in India amid PM Modi's State visit at the invitation of President Joe Biden. Alleging that six Muslim-majority countries were attacked with over 26,000 bombs when Obama was the US president.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Insulting the PM on a State visit equals to insulting the country. 
PM was taken for a ride by the US, coerced into a ghate ka sauda. 

Press Byte 
Kanhaiya Kumar, Alka Lamba and Gourav Vallabh should give a statement to the press highlighting that the members of the democratic party protested against Modi's visit. 
India was insulted in the US, no US representative came to welcome the PM at the airport. 
Former US President Barack Obama called out India for not protecting the rights of minorities, he is from the Democratic party, why is it that Modi is letting the US insult India?
It is the first time that an Indian PM faced protests on a State visit to the US.

Party, Social Media 
All party leaders should amplify "US Fooled Modi" highlighting how Modi sanctioned money for purchasing drones from the US and the US did not make a decision.
INC ecosystem should trend that Modi was insulted in the US, no US representative came to welcome him and the US representatives protested the visit and questioned India's democracy. It was not just an insult to the PM but an insult to the county.

Issue 4 | President Murmu faced discrimination at Jagannath temple in Delhi
Brief | While Railway Minister Ashwani Vaishnav and Dharmendra Pradhan were permitted to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the Jagannath Temple in Hauz Khas, President Droupadi Murmu was not allowed to enter
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
Even the President is not spared from caste-based discrimination under the BJP rule.
The INC firmly stands against discrimination, condemns the incident. 

RG, Twitter 
RG should condemn the incident on Twitter, and say that the images of the President not being allowed close to the idols of the Gods, while BJP ministers were permitted to do so had moved him. 

Press conference 
MK should hold a presser saying that in BJP's Amrit Kaal, even the President is subjected to caste-based discrimination 
Reiterate that the INC is with the SCs/STs/OBC communities who have been facing institutionalised discrimination for generations 
Say the BJP has made a tribal woman the President, but despite being the first citizen of the country, it had done little to ensure that she not be treated as a second-class citizen
The BJP's move to make Murmu the President was clearly tokenism as she was neither invited to the inauguration of the new Parliament, nor is she being allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the temple 
PIL 
A PIL should be filed by Balmiki/ Santhal leaders demanding that the court take cognisance of caste-based discrimination in temples

Issue 5 | Desh Me Kya Chal Raha Hai?
Brief | After returning from his foreign trip, PM Modi asked JP Nadda, "Desh Me Kya Chal Raha Hai?
Actionable | Narrative Stance
Manipur has been burning for more than 50 days and the PM is asking "Desh me Kya chal Raha Hai?"
Kaisa ignorant PM hai jise pta hi nahin hai ki Desh me kya chal raha hai. 

Party, On-Ground 
All PCC incharges should put up banners/posters of the map of India with the title "Desh Mein Kya Chal Raha Hai?" highlighting all the things that are happening in the country.
Manipur Violence - 130+ deaths, 5000+ houses burnt, 60000+ displace
Wrestlers protests against the BJP MP Brij Bushan Sharan Singh in Delhi
Farmers protests in Kurukshetra, Haryana
 Communal violence in Kolhapur, Maharashtra 
Violence in Panchayat Elections in West Bengal 

Party, Social Media 
All party leaders should post that the PM is asking BJP party President "Desh Mei Kya Chal Raha Hai?, question is, is the PM so unaware and disinterested in the country that he does not know that Manipur has been burning for more than 50 days?
Twitter Trend: Desh Mei Kya Chal Raha Hai, Desh Jal Raha Hai