National Narrative Recommendations June 8th, 2023 (Morning)

Issue 1 | Three sanitation workers cleaning sewage chamber die in Rajasthan's Kota
Brief | Three sanitation workers on Tuesday died of suffocation while cleaning a newly laid sewage chamber on Balita Road under Kunhari Police Station Kota.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
INC has always been against manual scavenging and those responsible for this will be held accountable. 
INC will never compromise with the safety and dignity of our sanitation workers. 

Visit the family 
Ashok Gehlot should visit the families of the deceased sanitation workers and pay condolences. 
Announce compensation and jobs to next of kin and a Pucca House to the families of deceased. 
Announced that INC will identify all people who were employed as sanitation workers and provide them with alternate employment opportunities. 

FIR against the Contractor 
Ashok Gehlot should direct Kota police to file an FIR against the contractor for murder of three people. 
Announce that the Rajasthan government will ensure that people responsible for the deaths will be held accountable and punished. 
Announce that the government will launch a statewide campaign to create awareness against manual scavenging.

Issue 2 | Guwahati bound goods train derailed
Brief | At Singra Railway Station near Boko in Assam's Kamrup district, 20 bogies of a goods-carrying train suffered derailment.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
The BJP government is spending money on luxury trains and ignoring the safety of the poor people of the country.
BJP is a derailed government, nothing in the country is on track. 

Press Conference 
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference in Delhi to highlight that instead of spending money on the maintenance of tracks and trains in the country, BJP is busy spending money on its advertisement. 
What the Indian railway needs is proper tracks, maintenance, fulfilment of safety staff vacancies and not luxury trains.
The government should tell the people of the country, how and where the railway budget was utilised.
We ask how many more trains need to derail for Ashwini Vaishnaw to take responsibility and resign. 
This is a derailed government, the government has no control, there is rising violence in Manipur, trains getting derailed, rise in fuel prices, farmers distress, rising unemployment and the list just keeps going on. The BJP government has failed.

Issue 3 | Lack of public toilets cause inconveniences; Karnataka woman writes emotional letter to President
Brief | Faced with the issue of absence of public toilets despite lakhs of visitors, Jademma from Ballari wrote an emotional letter to President Droupadi Murmu explaining the difficulty she faced in going to the toilet and has requested for basic facilities such as toilets in tourist places.
Actionable | Narrative Stance
BJP sarkar kaam nahi karti bus prachar karti hai. 
Swachh Bharat sirf TV aur newspapers me hi hai, ground pe double engine ne kuch nahi kiya. 

Press Conference 
Siddaramiah should hold a press conference to highlight that the BJP government in Karnataka failed to provide even basic facilities like public toilets.
Promise that the INC government will ensure that public toilets are constructed across Karnataka. 
Highlight that the BJP government spent crores on the advertisement of the Swachh Bharat Mission, still there are no public toilets. 
There was a double engine sarkar in Karnataka for 5 years, where the money was spent under the Swachh Bharat Mission. 
Announce audit of the Swachh Bharat Mission budget expenditure in Karnataka.
Announce a helpline number for collection of grievances from the people of Karnataka. 

Phone Call to Woman Who Wrote to the President
Siddaramaiah should call the women who wrote to the President highlighting the need for public toilets.
Thank her for highlighting the issue and promising that the INC government will ensure construction of public toilets across Karnataka.

Issue 4 | Crippled in mob attack, Kuki BJP MLA from Manipur admitted to Delhi hospital
Brief | Vungzagin Valte (61) can barely move without assistance. His voice is gone. The third-time legislator belonging to the Kuki community, who is also an adviser to Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh on tribal affairs, is among the first victims of the Kuki-Meitei ethnic violence that has claimed over 100 lives in the northeastern State since May 3.
Actionable | Narrative Stance 
BJP is unable to keep its own MLAs safe, how will they ensure safety of the people of Manipur.
Amit Shah is an incompetent HM.

Press Conference
Jairam Ramesh should hold a press conference to highlight that the violence in Manipur has not subsided even after Amit Shah's visit. 
Amit Shah is incapable of bringing peace to Manipur. 
Amit Shah failed to protect his own MLA's. How will he ensure that the public is safe?